nazov knihy ==================anonymous-authors_black-pullet.pdf
2
The Black Pullet Or The Hen With The Golden
Eggs
Before beginning the subject, and to acquaint my readers of this profound Science, which
until the present day has been the object of research of the most constant and profound
meditations, I must unbosom myself how these marvelous secrets were communicated to me,
and the manner in which the Divine Providence allowed me to escape from the greatest
dangers and, so to speak, conducted me by the Divine Hand, to prove that by Divine Will it is
sufficient to raise unto Himself the last of Beings or to precipate to naught those who are
clothed with all power on Earth. We all therefor come from God, God is everything, and
without God nothing can exist. Who more than I may penetrate the truth eternal and sacred.
I formed part of the expedition to Egypt, an officer in the army of the genius. I took part in
the successes and reverses of this army, which victorious or obliged to cede to force from the
eventualities and circumstances, always covered itself with glory.
As there is no point in relating here any detail which deals with this memorable campaign, I
will but relate one single feature, with which I was touched, and is necessary for the
development which I must give to those whom I mentioned in my preface. I had been sent by
the General, under whose orders I found myself, to draw up the plans of the Pyramids; he had
given me an escort of some mounted light infantry horse. I arrived with them at my
destination without experiencing any accident, also without noticing anything that could
conjecture the fate that awaited us. We had dismounted near the Pyramids, our horses had
been tethered; sitting on the sands we appeased the hunger that tormented us. French gaiety
seasoned the food which composed our frugal meal. It was on the point of ending, and I was
occupied with my work when all of a sudden a horde of desert Arabs fell on us. We did not
have the time to place ourselves in a position of defence. The blows of swords descended
upon us, the bullets whistled, and I received several wounds. My unhappy companions were
lying on the ground dead or expiring. Our cruel enemies after having removed our weapons
and clothes, disappeared with our horses with the speed of lightning. I remained for some
time in a state of prostration, facing the sun. At last recovering some of my strength, I raised
myself with pain. I had two sword cuts on the head, and one on the left arm. I looked around
me. I saw nothing but corpses, a burning sky and arid sand in an immense desert and a
frightning solitude. With but the hope of a certain and cruel death, I resigned myself to saying
goodbye to my country to my parents and to my friends. Invoking heaven, I crawled to the
Pyramid, and the blood which ran with abundance from my wounds reddened the sand which
was soon to be my tomb.
Arriving at the foot of these worldly marvels I sat down and leaned against this enormous
mass that had seen many centuries pass by and which would see many more pass. I thought
that my existence which was soon to end had come to naught just as the day which was
nearing its end, the sun being on the point of plunging into the ocean.
“Brilliant star, receive my goodbyes,” I said with emotion. “My eyes will never see you
again, your benificent light will never shine on me again. Goodbye.” As I said this goodbye
which I thought was eternal, the sun disappeared. The night came and covered the world with
its dark curtain.
I was absorbed with the most sad reflections when a light noise could be heard a few paces
from me. A large slab of stone detached itself from the pyramid and fell on the sand; I turned3
to that side, and by the light of a small lantern that he carried in his hand, I perceived a
venerable old man who came out of the pyramid. A white beard covered his chest, a turban
covered his head, and the rest of his costume indicated that he was a Mohammedan. He cast
his eyes around; then advancing a few steps he halted opposite the corpse of one of my
unhappy companions of misfortune.
“Oh Heavens!” he cried in Turkish. “A man is wounded, a Frenchman is dead.” He lifted his
eyes to the sky saying: “Oh Allah.” He then discovered the others which he carefully
examined to see if he could not find one who still breathed, and to assure himself, I saw him
place his hand in the region of the heart. The old man recognised that they had all ceased to
live. Uttering a painful groan, with tears furrowing down from his eyes, he retraced his steps
to re—enter the pyramid. I felt the desire to conserve my days. I had already made the
sacrifice of my life; hope entered my heart. Summoning all my strength, I called to him; he
heard me, and turning his lantern in my direction, he saw me. Advancing he gave me his
hand, which I seized and pressed to my ups. He saw that I was wounded and that blood was
flowing from the cuts on my head.
Placing his lantern on the ground, he removed his girdle and covered my brow. He then
helped me to get up. I had lost a lot of blood and was suffering from extreme weakness—I
hardly had the strength to support myself. Placing his lantern in my hand, then taking me in
his arms, he carried me near the opening in the pyramid from which he had come and placed
me gently on the sand. Giving me an affectionate grip of the hand, he indicated that he was
re-entering the pyramid and would return promptly.
I gave thanks to Heaven for the unexpected help that had been sent me. The old man
reappeared carrying a flagon. He removed the cork and poured a few drops of the liqueur into
a drinking vessel which he gave to me to drink. A delicious perfume diffused around me.
Hardly had this Divine Liqueur penetrated my stomach than I felt regenerated, and I had
enough strength to enter the pyramid with my benefactor and generous conductor.
We then stopped for a few moments. He replaced the stone that had fallen, which he adjusted
with an iron bar, and we descended by an easy slope into the interior of the pyramid. After
having walked for some time on the same path, which made several sinuous turns, we arrived
at a door which he secretly opened and closed with care. Then having crossed an immense
hall, we entered another place. A lamp hung from the ceiling; there was a table covered with
books, several oriental divans or seats, and a bed on which to rest. The kind old man
conducted me to a seat where he made me sit down. Placing his lantern on the table he
opened a kind of cupboard from which he took several vases.
He approached me and invited me to remove my clothes with an attention and complaisance
difficult to describe. Having examined my wounds he applied with solemn formality several
balms which came from the vases of which I have previously spoken. Hardly had they been
applied to my arms and head than the pains were soothed. He invited me to lie on his bed,
and very soon a beneficial and soothing sleep weighed down my eyelids.
When I awoke, I looked around and saw sitting near me the good old man who did not wish
to partake of rest while I was asleep as he feared that I might need help. I tendered him my
most grateful thanks by the most expressive signs. In the same manner he signified to me that
I must remain quiet. He gave me a new portion of the cordial which had already proved its
happy effects. Afterwards he looked at me with extreme attention, and realizing that he had
nothing to fear for my life, he affectionately patted my hand. He then lay down on some
cushions on the other side of the chamber where we were, and soon I heard him sleeping
profoundly and peacefully.4
“Oh benevolent one,” I said to myself, “thou art virtue par excellance and a pure emanation
of the Divinity; thou unitest and bringest men together and thou makest them forget the pains
to which they are prey. Through thee they are returned to happiness, and too thou art this
happiness, the object of all their wishes and all their desires.”
My host made a movement and got up. He came to me and smiled at seeing me in a state of
calm and tranquility which left him in no fear of my being. He gave me to understand that he
was going to leave me so that he could go out of the pyramid and see what was happening
outside. He brought to my side that which he thought would be necessary for my needs, and
then he left me alone.
Until this moment I had not reflected at all on what had happened to me in this exigency. I
found myself safe in this subterranean place, and I had no uneasiness relative to my host;
however, this would have to come to an end by my departing after I had been cured and re-
joining the Army. I was occupied with these ideas when I saw the old man re-enter. He gave
me to understand that several Arab corps and Mamelouks were surveying the plain and that
he had seen them without being noticed because his retreat was impenetrable to all eyes. He
indicated that he had me in his care and regarded me as his son; therefore I could deliver
myself to the greatest security. I indicated to him my complete gratitude, and he appeared
satisfied. As I appeared to be dissatisfied to be able to express myself only by signs, he
brought me a book indicating that with its help we could soon communicate together without
hesitation. The career which I had followed since my childhood had familiarised me with
meditation, I loved the application of mind, and I was soon in the condition to listen to my
generous old man. He also showed such compliance in the lessons which he gave me that
even with less good will, one would have made progress. I remain silent on all that was
relative to my new education. My complete cure and convalescence took longer than I
realized. My host went out from time to time to see what was taking place as he was in
complete ignorance of earthly events.
In short, one day he was longer than usual, and on his return he informed me that the French
Army had evacuated Egypt and that I could not hope to leave at this time without giving an
account of the days that I had spent with him. I should stay with him which he would make
me do by his kindness and love so that in my particular case of captivity my fate would not
be as cruel as I might think because he would teach me things which would astonish me and I
should desire nothing in the way of good fortune. I had begun to understand the Turkish
language. He told me to get up. I obeyed him. He took me by the hand and conducted me to
the end of the chamber. He opened a door opposite the one by which one entered, and taking
a lamp from the table we entered a vault where there were disposed in regular lines several
coffers which he opened. They were full of gold and gems of every kind. ”You see my son
that with this one never fears poverty. Everything is yours; I am reaching the end of my
career, and I shall be happy to leave them in your possession. These treasures are not the fruit
of avarice and a sordid interest. I own them by the knowledge of Occult Sciences with which
I am familiar and the boon which has been granted to me by The Great Being to penetrate the
secrets of Nature. I can still command the Powers that populate the Earth and Space and are
not visable to ordinary men.
“I like you, my dear son. I recognise in you the candour, sincerity, love of truth, and aptitude
for these sciences, and most of all I wish you to know that they have cost me more than
eighty years of research, meditation, and experience.
“The science of the Magicians, the language of the hieroglyphics, have been lost by the
downfall of man. Only I am the guardian. I will impart these precious confidences to you, and5
we will read together these characters traced on the pyramids which have been the despair of
scholars and before which they have paled for many centuries.”
The prophetic manner in which he spoke impressed me and I showed a very lively desire to
understand that with which he wished to acquaint me. I told him this in the Turkish language
which I was beginning to understand and to talk in a manner so that I could be understood.
“Your wishes shall be fulfilled,” answered my adopted father. Then lifting one hand to the
arch of heaven, he spoke in a solemn tone: Love, my son, love the very good and the very
grand God of the philosophers, and never become proud if he brings you in contact with the
children of wisdom for you to associate in their company and to make you a participant in the
wonders of his power.
After having finished this invocation of sorts, he then said while looking at me: “Such are the
principles which you must fathom. Try and make yourself worthy to receive the light. The
hour of your regeneration has come. You will become like a new individual.
“Pray fervidly to Him who alone has the power to create new hearts, to give you that which
will make you capable of great things that I have to teach you, and to inspire me to withhold
from you none of the mysteries of Nature. Pray. Hope. I eulogise the eternal wisdom which
has been placed in my soul and wish to disclose to you its ineffable truths. And you will be
lucky, my son, if nature has placed in your soul the resolution that these high mysteries will
demand of you. You will learn to command all Nature. God alone will be your master, and
the enlightened Will alone be your equal. The supreme intelligences will glory in obeying
your desires. The Demons will not dare to be found where you are. Your voice will make
them tremble in the pits of the abyss, and all the invisibles who inhabit the four elements will
esteem themselves happy to administer to your pleasures. I adore you oh Great God for
having enthroned man with so much glory, and having established him as sovereign monarch
of all the works made by your hands.
“Do you feel, my son, do you feel this heroic ambition which is the sure stamp of the children
of wisdom? Do you dare to desire to serve only the one God and to dominate over all that is
not God? Have you understood what it is to prove to be a man and to be unwilling to be a
slave since you are born to be a Sovereign? And if you have these noble thoughts, as the
signs which I have found on your physiognomy do not permit me to doubt, have you
considered maturely whether you have the courage and the strength to renounce all the things
which could possibly be an obstacle to attaining the greatness for which you have been
born?”
At this point he stopped and regarded me fixedly as if waiting for an answer, or as if he were
searching to read my heart.
I asked him, “What is that which I have to renounce?”
“All that is evil in order to occupy yourself only with that which is good. The proneness with
which nearly all of us are born to vice rather than to virtue. Those passions which render us
slaves to our senses which prevent us from applying ourselves to study, tasting its sweetness,
and gathering its fruits. You see, my dear son, that the sacrifice which I demand of you is not
painful and is not above your powers; on the contrary, it will make you approach perfection
as near as it is possible for man to attain. Do you accept that which I propose?”
“Oh my Father,” I answered, “nothing conforms more to my desires that that one should
choose propriety and virtue.”
“It suffices,” answered the old man. “Before unfolding to you completely the doctrine which
will initiate you into the mysteries, which are most profound and the most sacred, you must6
understand that the elements are inhabited by very perfect creatures. The immense space
between heaven and earth has inhabitants far more noble than the birds and the gnats. The
vast seas have many other hosts than the whales and dolphin. It is the same in the depths of
the earth which contains other things than water and minerals, and the element of fire, more
noble than the other three, has not been created to abide there useless and empty. The air is
full of an unnumbered multitude of beings with human form—a little proud in appearance but
in effect docile and great lovers of the sciences; subtle but obliging to the great Mages and
enemies of the foolish and the ignorant: these are the sylphs. The seas and rivers are the
habitat of the Ondines, the earth is full practically to the center of Gnomes, guardians of the
treasures and the precious stones. These are the ingenious friends of man and easy to
command. They supply to the children of the Magicians all moneys of which they have need
and only ask payment for their services in the glory of being commanded.
“As for the Salamanders, the inhabitants of the fire regions, they serve the philosophers, but
they do not seek the attention of their company.
“I could also talk about the familiar spirits: Socrates, as well as Pythagoras and a few other
wise men, had his. I have one also; he is near me when I have need of him. This will no doubt
seem strange to you, but even if your eyes do not convince you of the truth, you will be able
to believe it if you have any confidence in Socrates, Plato, Pythagoras, Zoroaster, Proclus,
Porphyry, Iamblichus, Ptolemy, Trismegistus and other wise men to whose enlightenment
one must add those who give us the natural knowledge.
“It remains for me to speak to you of the Talismans, those magic circles, which will give you
the power to command all the elements, to avoid all the dangers, all the snares of your
enemies, and to assure you the success of all your enterprises and the fulfillment of your
wishes.”
He arose, opened a chest which was at the foot of his bed, and took out a cedarwood box
covered in gold veneer and enriched with diamonds of an extraordinary brilliance. The lock
on which was engraved hieroglyphic characters was also of gold. He opened this casket, and I
saw a large quantity of talismans and rings which were enriched with diamonds and engraved
with magical and cabalistic symbols. It was impossible to look at them without being dazzled.
“You see, my son, each one has its virtue, its peculiar virtue, but to make use of it you must
understand the language of the Magicians in order to pronounce the mysterious words
engraved thereon. I will teach them to you before working with you on the great performance
with the spirits and the animals who are submissive to my authority and who obey me
blindly.
‘You will see when you have been initiated into all these mysteries of how many errors the
majority of those who pretend to be servile to nature have been guilty. They love the truth
and believe they have discovered it by means of abstract ideas and lose their way in the faith
of a reason of which they do not know the limits.
“The vulgar or common people do not see over the world in which they live other than an
arch of glittering light during the day and a scattering of stars during the night. These are the
limited ones of the universe. Certain of the philosophers have seen more and have increased
(their knowledge) up to nearly the present time to the point of affrighting our imagination.
Further, what prodigious work is offered at one stroke to the human spirit! Employ eternity
even to survey it; take the wings of dawn, fly to the planet Saturn in the skies which extend
over this planet. You will find without ceasing new spheres, new orbs, worlds accumulating
one above another. You will find infinity in matter, in space, in movement, in the number of
nuances and shades which adorn them. As our souls expand with our ideas and assimilate in a7
certain manner the objects which they penetrate, how much then must a man become elated at
having penetrated the inconceivable profundities. I am an upstart thanks to wisdom, and you
will reach this point too.” He arose and took up several manuscripts which were on the table.
“These precious books, my dear son, will acquaint you with things unknown to the rest of
humanity and which will seem never to have existed. These books escaped the fire of the
library of Ptolemy. They have received some damage, as you see; in effect, several pages
have been blackened by the fire.
“Ah well! It is by the knowledge which I have been able to draw from these works that I have
the authority to command all the beings who inhabit the aerial and terrestrial regions, known
and unknown to man.
“Oh my son! Prostrate yourself before the Divinity, deplore in His presence the errors of the
human spirit, and promise Him to be as virtuous as it is possible for a man to be. Guard
against studying moral philosophy in the ignorant writings of the multitudes, in the schemes
produced by the heat of the imagination, by the restlessness of the spirit, or by the desire for
celebrity which torments their authors. Seek guidance in those works where, having no other
interest than truth or other aim than public usefulness, they render to morals and to virtue the
homage which they have deserved in all times and from all peoples.”
I listened to this good old man with an admiration mixed with respect; he had stopped
speaking and I thought I heard him still. A sweet majesty reigned in all his features, and the
persuasion seemed to pour from his lips like a limpid stream running down a slope to fertilize
the prairies. He noticed my admiration which was akin to ecstacy.
“My dear son,” he said, “I pardon your astonishment. You have until now lived in the society
of men who are corrupt, who have learnt to doubt everything and to forget the respect which
one owes to Him who has brought forth all from nothing. Wisdom for them a meaningless
difficulty, but as you learn it, it will become for you a practical virtue. You will look on it as
something very simple, as natural to you as the air you breathe and as necessary to you for
your existence. Your wounds are healing. Tomorrow I will commence your education in
wisdom, and I will give you the first lesson. I am now going to my aviary to feed my
prisoners.”
“What!”, I said to him. “Your prisoners! With your philosophy and the love of humanity
which characterizes you, do you deprive living creatures of their liberty?”
He smiled at my observation. “My dear son, that which I do is necessary to facilitate my
mysterious operations, but the destiny of those submissive to my laws is perhaps sweeter than
if they enjoyed complete liberty. Besides, they have never known the prize and so cannot
desire it. Tomorrow you will have the answer to all these enigmas.
He then left me to enter the cave where he had led me when he showed me the chests filled
with gold and precious stones. Soon he came back. I got up. He told me to approach the
awning so that we could eat something before going to sleep. He picked up the papers that
were on the table. He took a seat and told me to sit by his side. I obeyed, but as I did not see
any food, he laughingly added that this food was not very substantial but that in a moment I
would see that he had cooks and slaves equally clever and intelligent. He immediately
pronounced these words: Ag, Gemenos, Tur, Nicophanta, and blew three times on a ring
which he had on his finger. Immediately the place was lit up by seven chandeliers of rock
crystal which appeared from the void. Nine slaves entered bringing various viands on golden
plates and wine in vessels of the greatest richness. Incense burned in tripods, and celestial
music could be heard. Everything was placed on the table in the most beautiful order, and the
slaves stood to attention around us to serve.8
“You see, my son,” the good old man repeated to me, “I have but to command to be obeyed.
Eat, serve yourself, and choose what will gratify you.”
Everything which I tasted was delicious. Then I took my goblet, and the wine, like nectar,
which had been poured into it, its bouquet forefunner to its delicate taste, appealed agreeably
to my sense of smell. When it had astonished my pallet and I had relished it, it seemed as
though a divine fire flowed through my veins and as if I had acquired a new existence. I
looked at the slaves who served us; they were all in the flower of their youth, of the greatest
beauty, and dressed in rose silk tunics with white belts. They had flowing golden curls
waving on their shoulders. With lowered eyes of respect, they attended to the orders of their
master.
The old man allowed me to finish my survey, and he then followed up with: “My son you
have appeased your hunger?” “Yes, my Father.” He raised his hand and said: Osuam, Bedac,
Acgos, and the slaves hurried to remove all that was on the table. They went out, the
chandeliers disappeared, and two beds arranged themselves on each side of the apartment
which was no longer lit except for the lamp that cast a soft light not unlike twilight.
“There, my dear son, is the manner in which you will be served every day. Your occupations
will vary innumerably and thus will preserve you from tediousness. Deliver yourself to sleep,
I will do the same, and tomorrow when day appears, I will keep my word which I have given
to you.”
“But my Father, the daylight will never penetrate into your abode; how can you know when
break of day will appear?”
“That depends on my will, my son; it is another surprise that I will arrange for you. Until
tomorrow, sleep in peace.”
He extended his hand to me, and I pressed it to my heart. He approached his bed, lay down
and soon sleep weighed down his eyes. I imitated him for a little while after which I fell
asleep.
Then I opened my eyes the lamp had vanished, daylight lit the chamber, and the rays of sun
penetrated there. The old man was walking with a book in his hand. The movement that I
made interrupted his perusal. He looked at me smilingly. I got up hurriedly and flew into the
arms he opened to me.
“My father, I salute you.”
“You have rested well, my dear son,” he said, as I judge by the calm which reigns on your
countenance.
Render homage to God who has permitted you to enjoy again this beautiful day, which lights
you, and ere I initiate you into the mysteries of wisdom, I will have a conversation with you
on a point of my doctrine which is necessary for developments.” He gave me a book and
opening it said: “Here is the first page and the prayer which you must address to the Great
Being.” And I read that which follows:
Oration of the Sages.
Immortal, Eternal, Ineffable, and Sacred Father of all things, who is carried on the chariot
rolling without cease, of the worlds which rotate always. Ruler of the Etheric Plain where
Your throne of power is exalted and from whose heights Thy formidable eyes discover
everything and Your beautiful and saintly ears hear everything. Harken to Your children
whom You have loved from their birth through all time. Since Your lasting, great, and eternal
majesty shines brightly over the world and the starry heavens, Thou art raised above them.9
Oh, sparkling fire! There You light and maintain Yourself in the appropriate splendour. There
comes forth from Your being never-failing streams of light which nourish Your infinite spirit.
This infinite spirit generates all things and makes this inexhaustible treasure of matter
which cannot fail to procreate that which always surrounds it because of the forms without
number with which it is filled and with which You have filled it since the beginning of time.
From this spirit the very saintly kings who are standing around Your throne and who
compose Your court also draw their origin. Oh, Universal Father! Oh, Unique One! Oh,
Father of blissful mortals and immortals! You have particularly created the powers which are
marvelously like Your eternal thought and Your adorable essence. You have established them
superior to the angels who announce Your wishes to the world. Finally, You have created us
sovereigns over the elements. Our continued exertion is to praise You and to adore
Your desires. We burn with the desire to be possessed of You. Oh, Father! Oh, Mother, the
most tender of Mothers! Oh, admirable example of tender sentiments of Mothers! Oh, Son,
the flower of all Sons! Oh, mould of all our shapes! Well beloved spirit, soul, harmony, and
number of all things, we adore You.
When I had finished, he said to me: “My dear son, I have spoken to you of the spirits that
populate the firmament, the sea, the earth, and fire, that is to say the elements. I have spoken
to you of the spirits and am going to go into greater detail to extend the limits of your
intelligence and to give you the means of penetrating into and understanding the sacred
mysteries which will be divulged to you.
“When the universe was full of life, this unique son, this God-engendered, had received a
spherical body, the most perfect of all; he was subject to circular movement, the simplest of
all, the most suitable to his shape. The Supreme Being surveyed his work with complaisance,
and having compared it with the model which He followed in his operations, He recognised
with pleasure that the principal traits of the original repeated themselves in the copy. He did
not grant him eternity for these two worlds could not have the same perfections. He made
time, the mobile image of immobile eternity, which measures the duration of the sensible
world as eternity measures that of the intellectual world, and for that He left traces of his
presence and his movements. The Supreme Being kindled the sun and cast him with the other
planets into the vast solitude of the airs. It is from there that this heavenly body floods the sky
with its light.
The contriver of all things then addressed His commandment to the spirits to whom he had
entrusted the administration of the heavenly bodies.
“Gods, who owe your birth to Me, listen to My sovereign commands. You do not have the
right to immortality; but you participate in it by the power of My will, more powerful than the
bonds which unite the parts of which you are composed. It remains for the perfection of all
this to fill with inhabitants the seas, the earth, and the airs. If they should owe the day to Me
immediately, escape the empire of death, they would become equal to the gods themselves. I
thus lay on you the care of producing them. Agents of My power, unite to these perishable
bodies the favor of immortality which you have received from My hand. Mold in particular
those beings who command other animals and who are submissive to you; who are born by
your orders; who increase by your good deeds, and who after their death are reunited with
you and participate in your happiness.”
He spoke, and suddenly, pouring into the basin where he had kneeded the Soul of the World
the remainder of this Soul held in reserve, he then fashioned the individual Souls, and joining
to those of men a small portion of the Divine Essence, he attached to them irrevocable
destinies. Finally, having appointed to the inferior gods the successive reclothement of mortal
bodies to provide for and control their needs, the Supreme Being re-entered into eternal rest.10
The inferior gods were obliged to employ the same means in developing us and thus the
maladies of the body and the even more dangerous ones of the soul. All that is good in the
universe in general and in man in particular derives from the Supreme God; all that is
defective comes from the vices inherent in matter.
“The earth and the heavens are populated, my dear son, with Spirits to whom the Supreme
Being has confided the administration of the Universe; He has distributed them everywhere
nature appears to be animated but principally in those regions which stretch around and above
us from the earth up to the sphere of the Moon. It is there where an immense authority is
exercised, they dispensing life and death, the good and the bad, light and darkness.
“Each nation, each individual finds in these invisible representatives an ardent friend to
protect him, an enemy no less ardent to pursue him. They are clothed in an aerial body; their
essence holds the middle between Divine Nature and nature; they surpass us in intelligence;
some of them are subject to our passions, mostly in the changes which pass them on to a
superior rank. Because of their innumerable multitude, spirits are divided into four classes:
the first of perfect beings whom the common herd adore and who reside in the stars; the
second, those of the spirits properly called and of whom I conversed with you; the third, those
beings less perfect who however, render great service to humanity; the fourth, those of our
souls, after they have been separated from the bodies which they inhabited. We may discern
from the first three the honors which will one day become part of our nature if we cultivate
exclusively wisdom and virtue.
“To render you more sensible of that which I have put forward to you relative to the spirits, I
will give you an account of what befell me with those who are submissive to me. Know also
that they only communicate to souls after a long time of preparation in meditation and prayer.
The dominion which I have obtained over my spirit is the result of my constancy in the
practice of the virtues. In the beginning I saw him only rarely; one day yielding to my
repeated entreaties he transported me to the realm of the spirits. Listen, my son, to the story
of my voyage.
‘The moment of departure having arrived, I felt my soul detatch itself from the bonds which
attached it to the body, and I found myself in the middle of a new world of animated
substances, good or malignant, blithe or sad, prudent or careless. We followed them for some
time, and I thought I recognized some who were directing the interests of nations and those of
individuals, the researches of sages and the opinions of the multitude.
“Soon a woman of gigantic stature extended her black veils over the vault of the skies; and
having descended slowly to earth, she gave her orders to the cortege which had accompanied
her. We glided into several houses. Sleep and its ministers scattered poppies with full hands;
and while silence and peace spread gently around virtuous men, remorses and frightful
spectres shook the beds of the wicked with violence.
“‘Dawn and the hours open the barriers of the day,’ my guide said to me. ‘It is time to rise
into the air.
See the tutelary spirits of Egypt soaring over the different towns and regions which the Nile
irrigates. They dispel as much as possible the evils with which they are menaced;
nevertheless, their countryside will be devastated because the spirits enveloped in dark clouds
are advancing and thundering against us; he then announced to me the arrival of the army of
which you formed a part because he had knowledge of its comming.
‘Observe now these assiduous agents, who, with a flight as rapid and as restless as the
swallow, skim over the earth and cast piercing looks on all sides for greed and avidity; these
are the inspectors of human affairs. Some spread their sweet influence over the mortals whom11
they protect; others launch the relentless Nemesis against grave transgressions. See these
mediators, these expounders who rise and descend without cease; they carry your prayers and
your offerings to the gods; they bring back to us happy or distressing dreams and the secrets
of the future which are then revealed to you by the mouth of the oracles.’
“Oh my protector!” I cried suddenly, “here are beings which in their stature and sinister
appearance inspire terror; they come to us.
“‘Flee,’ he said to me, ‘they are unhappy, the good fortune of others irritates them, and they
spare only those who pass their life in sufferings and in tears.’
“Escaping from their fury, we found objects no less afflicting. Discord, the detestable and
eternal source of dissentions which torment men, marched proudly above their heads and
whispered outrage and vengeance into their hearts. With timid steps and lowered eyes, the
prayers trailed on their steps and endeavoured to recall everywhere the calm they had showed
themselves. Glory was pursued by envy who tore her own sides; truth by impos re who
changed its face from moment to moment; each virtue by several vices which carried snares
or knives.
“Fortune appeared suddenly. My guide said to me, ‘You can speak with her.’ I felicitated her
on the gifts which she distributed to mortals. She told me in a serious tone that she did not
give but took a great interest. While uttering these words, she soaked the flowers and fruits
which she held in one hand in a poisoned cup which she held in the other.
“Then passed near us two powerful spirits who left long trails of light after them. The one
was war and the other wisdom.
“My guide told me two armies were approaching each other and were on the point of coming
to blows. Wisdom would place herself near the general whose cause was just and he would
be the victor because worth must triumph.
“‘Let us leave these unhappy spheres,’ said my spirit. We leapt the limits of the sphere of
darkness and death with the speed of lightning and of thought. We then shot above the sphere
of the Moon, and we reached the regions lit by eternal day. ‘Let us stop for an instant,’ said
my guide. ‘Cast your eyes over the magnificent spectacle which surrounds you; listen to the
divine harmony which is produced by the regular movement of the celestial bodies; look how
to each planet, each star, is attached a spirit which directs its course. These heavenly bodies
are populated by sublime intelligences of a nature superior to ours.
‘With my eyes fixed on the sun, I contemplated with ravishment the spirit who with a
vigorous arm pushes this scintillating globe on the course which he has decreed. I watched
him cast aside with fury the souls who endeavoured to plunge into the boiling surges of this
sphere to purify themselves although they were not worthy of this blessing. Touched by their
misfortune, I begged my conductor to take me away from this sight and to lead me into the
distance towards an enclosure where one could escape the rays of light which were too
brilliant. I hoped to catch a glimpse of the Sovereign of the Universe surrounded by the
assistants of His throne and of those pure beings who our philosophers call numbers, eternal
ideas or spirits of the mortals. My spirit told me that the Sovereign inhabits regions
inaccessable to humans, that we should offer him our homage and descend to earth.
“Hardly had he spoken when we found ourselves in the same place from whence we had
made our departure. He said to me, ‘I have let you become acquainted with that which no
mortal has ever been permitted to glimpse. From this moment it is no longer forbidden to me
to hide anything from you.’ And he unveiled to me all the mysteries in which I will let you
participate. To convince you of the truth of all that I have given out to you, you will see my12
spirit, who will become yours since I have adopted you as my son. He will see in you another
me ‘
He pronounced these two words: Koux, Ompax. In that instant I saw appear a young man of
the most beautiful stature; the remainder of his person shone with all the charms, and on the
summit of his head shone a flame of which my eyes could not sustain the brilliance. He said
smiling at the old man: Oles, Nothos, Perius. The old man took his hand and
answered: Solathas, Zanteur, Dinanteur. The spirit took his place by his side.
The old man noticed that the spirit’s light dazzled my eyes. “When you have been initiated
into the mysteries of wisdom, you will be able to contemplate this fire without danger and
even to stand the rays of the sun. Let us begin the initiation, let us stand.”
I executed this order which he had given as did the spirit. He placed his hand on my head and
said:
“Sina, Misas, Tanaim, Orsel, Misanthos.” A voice which came from the cavern wherein were
the coffers containing all the precious stones gave this answer:
“Torzas, Elicanthus, Orbitau .” Hardly had the last word been pronounced than we found
ourselves in the most profound darkness. The fire which shone on the head of the spirit had
also disappeared.
“Be without dread or fear,” the old man said.
“My father, am I not with you?”
“Your answer pleases me, it proclaims confidence. You will now test the effects of it.” He
then said: “Thomatos, Benasser, Elianter.” Everything was then lit up but by a seemingly
dark light, and I saw enter several individuals who took up positions around the room. “Here
are all the spirits who will be subservient to you; I will proclaim them to you.” He took me by
the hand and conducted me around the room. He stopped in front of every spirit and said to
me, “Repeat with me: Litau, Izer, Osnas.” I obeyed and each spirit bowed saying, “Nanther.”
There were thirty-three. When we had reached the last one, he told me to return to the place
which I had occupied. Then he took a wand six feet in length having at one end the head of a
serpent and at the other the tail. On the wand were plates of gold the same as the head and tail
on which were engraved the characters as illustrated in Figure 1.
Figure of the Wand stained with blood of the lamb.13
These characters should be written on the wand with India ink.
He formed a circle by uniting each end by a golden chain which he passed through two links;
he put it on the ground and placed himself in the center.
“What do you wish to see at this moment, my son?” he asked me.
“The plain on which you found me at the point of death from pain and want,” I answered.
He raised his hands toward heaven and said, “Soutram, Ubarsinens.” Immediately the spirits
approached me and taking me in their arms, they lifted me, and I found myself transported to
the foot of the Pyramid. I saw a multitude of Arabs on horseback who were surveying it.
Although I had not noticed him, the old man was near me enjoying my astonishment. “You
see, my son, how all the spirits are submissive to you, how they will obey you and await your
orders. Do you wish to return to the place which you left or to soar for some time in the
middle of the aerial parts? Do you know that you can see all that is happening around you and
that you are visible only to the Great Being who wishes to accord you wisdom and to those
who accompany you?”
I testified to the desire to survey the immensity.
“Pronounce Saram while extending your arms towards the east, and you will be satisfied.” I
uttered this word and made the indicated sign. The spirits lifted me up as well as the old man.
We approached the clouds, and the vast horizon opened to my enchanted eyes. The old man
once again said to me: “You see I have not made vain promises, you will have the same
success in all your undertakings, but let us return to the Pyramid. The spirits await us, and we
will continue our workings.” He said “Rabiam,” and very soon we re-entered the abode of the
old man.14
When we were seated, the spirits disappeared, only the first one remaining with us.
All the insignia were changed, and a very intense light illuminated the vault. He then formed
the second Magic Circle.
Placing himself therein, the old man said to me: “Go near your spirit. I give you permission
for I know that you have a pure heart, that you have never been guilty of any action which
would make you blush. If that were not the case, you would be struck down dead on entering
this circle. Go, my son.” I followed his instructions. He opened the casket where all the rings
were to be found, and drew out that one shown in Figure 3 as well as the talisman which he
placed in my hands.15
“This one will serve to conjur the celestial and infernal powers. Put the ring on your finger
and the talisman over your heart, then pronounce the following words: Siras, Etar,
Besanar, and you will perceive the effects.”
Hardly had these words come from my mouth than I saw a multitude of spirits and figures of
different shapes. The spirit who was at my side said to me: “Command and order and your
desires will be satisfied.” The old man added, “My son, the sky and the hells are at your
orders. I think that at this moment you are not in want of anything; therefore, if you believe
me, put off until later proving the Intelligence and activity of these spirits. To make them
disappear, remove the ring from your finger and the talisman from the place which it
occupies, and they will return to their sphere.” I did that which he ordered me to do, and they
all went like a dream.
“There remain many things for me to teach you to make you at ease with these rings and
talismans. This instruction will be the object of very important work which we shall do
together with the help of our spirit.
“Let us follow the course of our experiences. Stay where you are.” He gave me another ring
and talisman (Figure No. 4).16
These characters should be engraved on the inside of the ring
“These two precious objects, my son, are destined to make you loved by the most beautiful
portion of the human race. There is not a woman who would not be happy to please you and
who would not employ all possible means to be successful at it. Do you wish the most
beautiful odalisque of the Grand Caliph should be brought before you in an instant? Put the
ring on the second finger of your left hand, press the talisman against your lips, and say
tenderly in a whisper: o Nades, Suradis, Manier.” Suddenly a spirit with rose-coloured wings
appeared; he placed himself on his knees before me. “He awaits your orders,” the old man
said. “Say to him: Sader, Prostas, Solaster.” I repeated these words, and the spirit vanished.
“He is going to traverse an immense space with the rapidity of thought, and the most
beautiful forms will appear before your eyes and will serve as a model to paint those houris
which our Divine Prophet promises to his faithful servants. O my son, how blessed you are;17
not every mortal obtains from the Great Spirit such favours as I can see by the speed with
which your wishes are executed.”
He had finished speaking when the spirit with the rose-coloured wings arrived carrying in his
arms a woman enveloped in a large white veil. She seemed to be asleep, and he placed her
gently on a couch which appeared near me. He raised the veil which hid her. Never had
anything so beautiful been offered to my eyes; she was Venus with all the charms of
innocence. She sighed and opened the most beautiful eyes in the world which came to rest on
meo In a most harmonious voice she uttered a cry of surprise saying, “It is he.” The old man
told me to approach the beauty, place a knee on the ground, for it is thus that one should
speak to her, and to take her hand. I obeyed, and the divinity to whom I addressed my
homage said to me: “I have seen thee in a dream, and the reality thereof makes thee more
dear to my heart. I prefer you to the Sultan who for a long time has fatigued me with his
homage.” “That is enough,” said the old man, and he said forcefully, “Mammes Laher.” Four
slaves appeared to remove the couch and she who had made such a vivid impression on my
heart. The old man noticed my emotion and the pain which resulted from her departure. He
said to me, “You will see her again. Understand that in order to possess wisdom, it is
necessary to know how to resist the allurements of voluptuousness.”
His words made me come to myself, and I said to him, “Pardon, my father, but you have seen
her, that is my excuse.”
I replaced the ring and the talisman in the casket, and he gave me that which is illustrated in
Figure No. 5.18
These characters should be engraved on the inside of the ring
“This talisman and this ring are not less valuable.
They will enable you to discover all the treasures which exist and to ensure you the
possession of them.
Place the ring on the second finger of your right hand, enclose the talisman with the thumb
and little finger of your left hand, and say, Onaim, Perantes, Rasonastos.”
I repeated these three words, and seven spirits of a bronze colour appeared, each carrying a
large hide bag which they emptied at my feet. They contained gold coins which rolled in the
middle of the hail where we were. I had not noticed that one of the spirits had on his shoulder
a black bird, its head covered with a kind of hood.19
“It is this bird,” the old man said to me, “who has made them find all this treasure. Do not
think that these are some of what you have seen here. You can assure yourself of this.”
I replied, “You are for me the truth itself. My father! Do you believe that I would insult you
by doubting?”
He made a sign, and the spirits replaced the gold in the bags and disappeared.
“You see, my son, what the virtues of these talismans and rings are. When you know them
all, you will be able, without my aid, to perform such miracles as you judge proper. Replace
in the casket those of which you have made proof, and take this one (Figure No. 6).
These characters should be engraved on the inside of the ring
“They will enable you to discover the most hidden secrets; you will be able to penetrate
everywhere without being seen, and not a single word in the universe can be uttered without
it coming to your ears, whether you wish to listen to it yourself or to have it brought back to
us by your agents when you order them to do so. To prove it to you, repeat these words and
place the talisman near your ear while you hold the ring tightly in your left hand: Nitrae,
Radou, Sunandam.” I distinctly heard a voice which said to me:20
“The Grand Mogul has decided in his private council that he must declare war on the
Emperor of China.”
Another voice said to me: “All is rumour in Constantinople. Last night the Sultana was
carried off, and the Grand Sultan is in despair. He has had all the eunuchs thrown into the sea
after having had them beheaded.”
“Oh Heavens! What mischief I have done without wishing it,” I cried in pain.
“Well, my son,” the old man said, “it is a lesson for you to learn— not to be enslaved by your
passions and to know how to curb them. This is enough for today, tomorrow we will
continue.”
The next day we followed the course of our mysterious operations. The spirit had not left us.
“You see, my son,” said the old man, “that everything becomes easy with confidence and a
pure soul without stain.” He opened the casket and took from it the talisman and ring (Figure
No. 7).
These magical characters should be engraved on the inside of the ring21
When he had placed them in my hands, he pronounced two words, which I will teach you.
“Place this ring on the little finger of your left hand and the talisman to your right ear, and the
most discreet man will divulge to you his most hidden thoughts. Here are the two
words: Noctar, Raiban, and if you add a third word, which is Biranther, your greatest enemies
will not be able to prevent themselves from loudly publishing their projects against you. In
order to convince you, I am going to have appear before you one of the Beys of Cairo, and he
will impart to you all of his schemes against the French.” He then said “Nocdar,” to the spirit
who then vanished like lightening. A quarter of an hour after he returned with the Bey who
said: “We have made a treaty of alliance with the English, and the armistice concluded with
the French will be broken without warning.” He disappeared with the spirit after the old man
had said:
“Zelander. The Mufti of the Grand Mosque will appear before your eyes and show you a
manuscript of a work which he has composed and which he has refused to show to his best
friends, even the Grand Visir.” I did that which has previously been indicated, and very soon
the Mufti appeared and placing his manuscript on the table, he said to me: “Tonas, Zugar,”
which means in the language of the magi: read and believe. The old man looked at him
affectionately; he gave him his hand pronounced with sweetness and expression, o Solem.
The Mufti, after bowing, disappeared.
“Return the talisman and the ring to me,” the old man said, “and take this.” (Figure No. 8)22
Characters to be engraved on the inside of the ring
“It will serve to activate as many spirits as you wish to undertake or to stop operations which
would be contrary to you. The magic words are: Zorami, Zaitux, Elastot. We will not at this
moment make any experiments; tomorrow we will go to the shores of the Nile and we will
have constructed a bridge of a single arch on which we shall pass to the other side of the
river.
“Here is the next talisman and its ring (Figure No. 9).
These characters should be engraved on the inside of the ring
They have the property of destroying everything, of commanding the elements, of calling
down the thunder, hail, the stars, earthquakes, hurricanes, water spouts on land and sea, and
of preserving our friends from all accidents. Here are the words which one must pronounce
(the numbers indicate each thing that you wish to operate): first, you pronounce:23
Ditau, Hurandos; second, Ridas, Talimol; third, Atrosis, Narpida; fourth, Uusur, Itar; fifth,
Hispen, Tromador; sixth, Paranthes, Histanos.
“The talisman and the ring (Figure No. 10) will make you invisible to all eyes, even those of
the spirits. Only the Great Being could be witness to your steps and your actions. You will
penetrate everywhere into the bosom of the seas, into the bowels of the earth, you can
likewise survey the airs, and no action of men can be hidden from you. Say only: Benatir,
Cararkau, Dedos, Etinarmi.”
Characters to be engraved on the inside of the ring
I repeated these four words, and through the walls of the Pyramid I saw two Arabs who were
on the plain and who were profiting by the obscurity to ransack a tomb where they hoped to
find something of value. “You will be able, when you wish, to prove the other things which I
will have taught you, it will only be necessary to place the ring successively on the different
fingers of the right hand.24
“The talisman and ring (Figure No. 11) will serve to transport you into whatever part of the
world you judge appropriate without running any danger. Say merely these words: Raditus,
Polastrien, Terpandu, Ostrata, Pericatur, Ermas. But I hope that you will not make use of
these means to leave me without my consent. Promise it to me.” “My father, I swear to it.”
Characters to be engraved on the inside of the ring
“With the talisman and the ring (Figure No. 12) you will be able to open all locks, no matter
what secrets have been employed to shut them; you will not need a key. Simply by touching
them with the ring and pronouncing these three words: Saritap, Pernisox, Ottarim, they will
open of themselves without difficulty. Make proof of this on the spot, my son,” the old man
told me. “Close the casket which you see on that table.” I did this, and after having assured
myself that nothing could open it but the key, I touched it with the ring and pronounced the
magic words, and it opened of its own accord. “It will be the same,” added the old man, “with
all the doors of prisons, fortified castles, where they might lock you up.25
Characters to be engraved on the inside of the ring
“With the talisman and ring (Figure No. 13), you will be able to see what takes place in all
houses without being obliged to enter them; you will be able to read the thoughts of everyone
whom you approach and with whom you find yourself, and you will be able to render them
service or do them injury as you wish. It will be sufficient to place the talisman on your head
and then to blow on the ring saying: o Tarot, Nizael, Estarnas, Tantarez these words are for
knowing the thoughts of people.
“In order to render service to those who deserve it, you say: Nista, Saper, Visnos, and they
will immediately enjoy all sorts of prosperities.
“To punish the wicked and your enemies, you will say: Xatros, Nifer, Roxas, Rortos, and
they will at once suffer punishment and frightful torment. What you have already seen should
prove to you that I have advanced nothing which cannot be realised; therefore it is useless to
make proof thereof.26
Characters to be engraved on the inside of the ring
“The talisman and the ring (Figure No. 14) will serve you to destroy all the projects which
could be made against you, and if any spirit wished to oppose your wishes, you could force
him to submit to you. Place the talisman on a table under your left hand and with the ring on
the second finger of the right hand, you say in a bass voice, while inclining your head:
Senapos, Terfita, Estamos, Perfiter, Notarin.27
Characters to be engraved on the inside of the ring
“The talisman and ring (Figure No. 15) have a property as extraordinary as agreeable; they
will give you all the virtues, all the talents, and the inclination to do good by changing all
substances which are of a bad quality and rendering them excellent. For the first object, while
elevating the talisman and with the ring placed on the first joint of the third finger of the left
hand, it is sufficient to pronounce these words: Turan, Estonos, Fuza.
“For the second operation you say: Vazotas, Testanar, and you will see operate the wonder
which I have proclaimed to you.28
Characters to be engraved on the inside of the ring
“The talisman and the ring (Figure No. 16) will assist you to know all the minerals and
vegetables, their virtues and properties, and you will possess the universal medicine. There is
no illness that you will not be able to cure and no cure that you will undertake without
success. Aesculapius and Hippocrates will only be novices compared to you. You pronounce
only these words: Reterrem, Salibat, Cratares, Hisater, and when you are near a sick person
you will carry thet talisman on the stomach and the ring with a St. Andrew’s Cross around
your neck on a ribbon the colour of fire.29
Characters to be engraved on the inside of the ring
“The talisman and the ring (Figure No. 17) will keep you safe in the midst of the most
ferocious animals, to subdue them to your will, to know by their different cries what they
want as they have a language among themselves. Mad animals will keep at a distance from
you, and you will make them perish forthwith by pronouncing the words which I am going to
indicate to you.
“For the first operation it is sufficient to say: Hocatos, Imorad, Surater, Markila. For the
second: Trumantrem, Ricona, Estupit, Oxa.30
Characters to be engraved on the inside of the ring
“The talisman and ring (Figure No. 18) will enable you to know the good or bad intentions of
all the individuals whom you will meet to guarantee you of it and to impress on their face a
mark which will be noticed by everyone. It is sufficient to pronounce these mysterious words,
while placing the talisman on your heart and the ring on the little finger of your right hand.
You will then say: Crostes, Furinot, Katipa, Garinos.31
Characters to be engraved on the inside of the ring
“The talisman and the ring (Figure No. 19) will give you all talents and a profound
understanding of all the arts so that you can perform with as much brilliance as the greatest
masters and foremost artists. It is sufficient to carry the talisman and the ring in a manner you
judge suitable while pronouncing these seven words: Ritas, Onalun, Tersorit,
Ombas, Serpitas, Quitathar, Zamarath while adding afterwards the name of the art or the
talent which you wish to possess.32
“The talisman and the ring (Figure No. 20) will help you to win at lotteries and to make
certain when playing a game that you will obtain the fortune of your adversaries. You will
place the talisman on your left arm, adjusting it with a white ribbon, and the ring on the little
finger of your right hand; then you will say these words: Rokes for a selection, Pilatus for a
combination of two numbers, Zotas for dice, Tulitas for four winning numbers, Xatanitos for
five winning numbers. Be sure to pronounce all the words when you are on a quine, and for a
card game you will pronounce them each time the cards are shuffled, if it is you or your
partner, and before commencing you will touch your left arm on the spot where the talisman
is to be found with your right hand, and you will kiss your ring. All this must be done without
drawing the attention of your adversary.33
Characters to be engraved on the inside of the ring
“The talisman and the ring (Figure No. 21) will enable you to direct all the infernal powers
against your enemies or against those who would injure your friends. You will carry it in a
manner which you consider suitable and pronounce merely these three words: Osthariman,
Visantiparos, Noctatur.34
Characters to be engraved on the inside of the ring
“The talisman and the ring (Figure No. 22) will serve you to recognise what the infernal
powers wish to undertake, and you can abort all their projects by placing the talisman on your
chest and the ring on the first joint of the little finger of the left hand. You pronounce these
words: Actatos, Catipta, Bejouran, Itapan, Marnutus.35
Characters to be engraved on the inside of the ring
Composition of the Talismans and the Rings.
“As it is possible that you have not had the means of making talismans and rings similar to
mine,” the old man said to me, “you will make them up in the manner which I will indicate.
Know that the rings are of bronzed steel with the characters engraved thereon. The talismans
should be made of silk cloth in the dimensions of the figures.
No. 1. White satin embroidered in gold.
No. 2. Red satin embroidered in silver.
No. 3. Sky-blue satin embroidered in silver.
No. 4. Black satin embroidered in silver.
No. 5. Green satin embroidered in gold.36
No. 6. Violet satin embroidered in silver.
No. 7. Golden-yellow satin embroidered in gold.
No. 8. Lilac satin with shaded silk.
No. 9. Poppy-red satin embroidered in silver.
No. 10. Yellow satin embroidered in black silk.
No. 11. Puce satin embroidered in gold.
No. 12. Dark blue satin embroidered in silver.
No. 13. Pale grey satin embroidered in gold.
No. 14. Rose satin embroidered in silver.
No. 15. Golden-yellow satin embroidered in silver.
No. 16. Orange satin embroidered in silver.
No. 17. Dark green satin embroidered in gold.
No. 18. Black satin embroidered in gold.
No. 19. White satin embroidered in black silk.
No. 20. Cherry satin embroidered in silver.
No. 21. Grey-White satin, shaded.
No. 22. Red satin, embroidered in the middle with gold, the border in silver, and the signs in
black and white silk.
The old man, after having given me this information, replaced all the talismans and rings in
the casket. The spirit who was at my side closed it arid gave him the key. The old man said to
me: “All the wonders which have been performed in front of You, my dear son, ought not to
leave any doubt of the Power and virtue of these talismans and rings. If you have not
experienced any obstacle in your enterprises, it is because your heart is pure, that your soul is
without stain, and that virtue, probity, and honour will always be dear to you. A man who had
the least reproach to make to himself, who had destroyed the good of others, or who had only
the intention of so doing, would not be able to participate in our mysteries. In vain would he
have in his possession all that you see, our magical language known to him. The celestial
powers—aerial, infernal, terrestrial, and those of the oceans and fire—would rebel against
him. All that he wished to undertake would turn to his shame and his confusion, and at each
invocation which he might make, the powers that he implored for help and intervention
would answer him: Renounce thy projects. Thou art guilty. Before commanding us, purify
thyself, expiate thy faults.
“If after these emanations he continued to conjure the powers, he would finish by being
punished and would without fail lose his life. Remember then, my dear son, that all is
possible with virtue and that not one fault will remain unpunished. There are still two prayers
which you must be careful to recite before and after each conjuration that you wish to do;
here they are:
First Prayer.
The Celestial Fire above is an incorruptable flame, always scintillating, the source of life,
fountain of all the Beings, and principle of all things. This flame produces all and nothing
perishes except which it consumes: it makes itself known by it-self. This fire cannot be37
contained in any place; it is without body or matter. It encompasses the skies, and from it
emanates a little spark which makes all fire of the Sun, of the Moon, and the Stars. That is
what I know of God: do not try to know more because that is beyond you, such judge as thou
art. Moreover, know that the unjust or wicked man can-not hide himself in front of God; no
address or any excuse can disguise anything from his piercing eyes. All is clear to God: God
is everywhere.
Second Prayer.
There is in God as immense profundity of flame; the heart ought not, however, to fear to
touch or to be touched by this adorable fire; it will not be consumed by this sweet fire, whose
tranquil and perishable heat makes the union, harmony, and duration of the world. Nothing
exists except by this fire which is God. No one has engendered it; it is without mother, it
knows all, and no one is able to know anything of it. It is immovable in its projects and its
name is ineffable. Here then is that which is God; because for us, who are his messengers, we
are but a small part of God.
“You see, my son, that all the instructions that I give you have as a basis the respect which
one owes to God, Who is the principle of all things and Whose ineffable and limitless
goodness fills us to the brim each day with all His goodness, when we render ourselves
worthy of it by our respect and our submission to His will and His immutable decree.”
The old man after these short reflections said to me: “You have no doubt noticed, my son,
that I have spoken to you about the birds to whom I was going to give food, and you have
seen spirits who had one with them; when the pieces of gold were deposited at your feet, it
was these birds who enabled them to discover it by their instinct and by the magical and
cabalistic words which one pronounced. To procure these birds there are difficulties without
number that one must conquer, and the profane, those who are not initiated into our
mysteries, make useless efforts to obtain them. It is of the marvelous Black Hen that I am
going to converse with you. The great Oromasis, father of Zoroaster, was the first who
possessed one; it is from him that I possess the secret of calling them into existence, and here
is the manuscript in which is contained the manner of hatching these birds who are as rare as
precious.” He opened for me at the same time this manuscript whose cover was a thin plate of
gold covered with diamonds, rubies, topazes and sapphires whose brilliance it was impossible
to bear. The paper was of a dazzling whiteness, and the hieroglyphic characters were traced
by hand in rose-coloured ink.
“I will teach YOU to read in this book as I can,” he said to me, “but let us occupy ourselves
with the way to hatch the Black Hen and to procure the eggs which she will come forth.” He
took several pieces of aromatic woods such as aloes, cedar, or lemon, laurel, some root of
Iris, and some roses whose leaves had been dried in the sun. (Translators note: the author
distinctly states leaves, not petals.) He put the lot in a chafing-dish of gold. poured on top
thereof balsamic oil of the purest essence, transparent gum, and having pronounced the
words: Athas, Solinam, Erminatos, Pasaim, the sun-light penetrated the vault. He placed a
glass on the chafing-dish. At the same moment that the sun’s struck the glass, the perfumes
and pieces of odorous wood which were in the dish burst into flame, the glass liquified, and
an agreeable odor was diffused in the vault. Very soon nothing was left but cinders. The old
man, who had not ceased to watch with the greatest attention, took a golden egg which been
in a black velvet bag and which I had not noticed. He opened this egg, closed the burning
cinders therein, and placed it then on a black cushion. He covered it with a faceted rock-
crystal bell; then, raising his eyes and his arms toward the vault, he cried: oSanataper, Ismai,
Nontapilus, Ertivaler, Canopistus. The sun seemed to dart its rays on this bell with still
greater force and violence.38
The bell became the colour of fire, the golden egg disappeared before my eyes, a thin vapour
rose in the air, and I saw a little black pullet which stirred, got to its feet and clucked faintly.
The old man extended one of his fingers to it, and it placed itself thereon. He then
pronounced these two words: Binusas, Testipas, and the winged creature glided onto his
breast.
There,” said the old man, “is the manner of procuring a Black Hen. In a few days it will be of
ordinary size, and I will instruct it in front of you. You will see the instinct of this animal to
discover the most hidden treasures and that the smallest particle of gold cannot escape it. Let
us give thanks to the Great Being who has permitted us to penetrate these mysteries and to
perform such prodigies and marvels. We will say together the two prayers recounted further
back.” After having fulfilled this duty, he said to me, “My son, this is enough. We will take a
little rest.” The sun had shone on us for some time. It disappeared, and its light was replaced
by that of several chandeliers. The spirit, who had not left us, took a lyre, and accompanying
himself he sang in the language of the magicians of the Eternal Power and the marvels of
nature.
The old man listened with attention to the accents of the spirit. For myself I was enchanted,
arid he smiled in observing me. “This is enough,” he said to the spirit. “Before delivering
ourselves to rest, I wish to show you the means of having a Black Hen without having
recourse to those which I have used, for it would be difficult to obtain the perfumes and the
other materials which I placed in the chaffing-dish if others than you or I wished to perform
this great work. But if someday you find someone who is worthy of being initiated, here is
the means which you should employ. Take an egg which you will expose at noon to the
gleams of the sun, observing that it has not the least stain. Then you choose a hen as black as
possible; if it has any feathers of another colour, you will pull them out. You will cover its
head with a hood of black material in such a manner that it can-not distinguish anything. You
will allow it the use of it’s beak. Enclose it in a box lined also with black material, big
enough to contain it, and place that in a room where daylight cannot penetrate. Be careful to
bring it food only at night. When all these indispensible precautions have been taken, you
will give it the egg to sit on, taking care that it is not disturbed by any noise. It all depends on
the blackness of this hen, its imagination will be impressed with it, and at the proper time you
will see hatched a hen which is completely black. But I repeat to you, is necessary that those
who perform this shall be worthy by their wisdom and virtue to participate in these sacred
and divine mysteries. For, if we are not able to read the hearts of men, it is not the same with
the Great Spirit; all is known to him and he penetrates our most secret intentions and our
most hidden thoughts. It is after that that He accords or refuses to us His favours and His
gifts.
“Our sitting has been so long,” he added, “that We must take some food before delivering
ourselves to rest.” He clapped his hands three times, and the Slaves, the spirits who had
previously appeared, offered themselves again to my attention, and in an instant we had all
the viands that could satisfy taste aroma, and the eyes. The meal was very gay; the old man
annimated it by his sallies. The spirit was also of the party. I was as inspired, and I joined the
conversation. At last sleep weighed down our eyes, and we left the table to taste its
sweetness.
The most agreeable dreams lulled me with their cheerful images, and when I awoke daylight
lit up our abode. I did not see the old man or the spirit. I thought that they had gone out, and I
abandoned myself to my reflections. The present assures me of the future, nothing could
make me anxious. If fortune gives happiness, I said to myself, who will be happier than I. I
cannot see any wish which will not be accomplished at once; my lot would be envied if it39
were known by the remainder of men. I want to be able to return to my country soon. As I
followed up this idea, I heard a slight noise and saw the old man enter followed by the spirit.
They approached me, both took me by the hand, and I left my bed of rest at once.
‘You have rested well, my dear son,” the old man said. “During your sleep I went out with
the spirit to visit my birds, and I am going to make you acquainted with their talents. At the
same instant he touched a spring which was in the wall, a section opened, and seven black
birds which I recognised as hens were brought in in a cage by two black slaves. “These
animals have a marvelous instinct for finding gold. You will be the judge.” He placed several
pieces of gold under the cushions, in the crevices of walls under the folds of his turban, then
said to the slaves: Tournabos, Fativos, Almabisos. They opened the cage, uncovered the
heads of the birds, and the hens came out and flew immediately in the different places where
the gold was hidden. They picked up the pieces in their beaks and deposited them at the feet
of the old man. He took these birds one after the other and carressed them. He said to me:
“You see how tame they are; we will go out for a while on the plain; I have placed in the sand
several pieces of gold. We will release our birds, and soon they will have discovered the
treasure.” He made a sign to the slaves who reclosed the birds in the cage we departed.
As soon as we had come out of the Pyramid for about five hundred paces onto the plain, he
released the birds. They went a few paces; soon it seemed that their instinct indicated to them
where the treasure was to be found. They flew in that direction, and all seven of them started
scratching. They soon discovered the sacks, and one of them started to cackle; we approached
and saw the sacks which the old man had hidden. I could not prevent myself from showing
my surprise. “My son, you see that all is possible with the aid of God and his powerful
protection.” We took the sacks and re-entered the Pyramid.
He had the birds re-enclosed with the same precautions as were taken to let them out. He then
said to me: “Let us see what condition my new-born is in.” He opened a little box lined with
down in which he had enclosed it, and already feathers were beginning to appear. “A few
more days,” he said, “and it will be able to receive the first lessons. He replaced the box in its
place. “Since we have been together,” said the old man, “we have not gone out; we will make
a little excursion into the country and wear the costume of the locality.” The spirit covered
his head with a turban and dressed completely like a Turk. I did the same, and we prepared to
depart. Before leaving I saw the old man take a talisman and a ring. I remarked on it, and he
told me that perhaps it might be necessary for us and that precaution was the mother of
security. We then went our way and walked quietly for some time. The old man spoke to us
of the changes which took place in the world from time to time, of the revolution of the stars
and the planets.
He seemed to give notice to us and to fore-shadow things which would follow. All of a
sudden a horde of Arabs pounced upon us with raised swords. The old man looked at them
without fright, and he raised his hand; the brigands stopped. He pronounced the words
prescribed for the talisman (Figure No. 10) and we became invisible. The astonished Arabs
looked on all sides without seeing us. It is impossible to paint a picture of the astonishment of
these villains. Their chief appeared astounded. The old man smiled. He pronounced the
word Natarter in a loud voice, and they took flight with lightening rapidity. “Be calm,” said
the old man. “For a long time they will not dare to appear in this territory.”
We continued walking for some time. The time passed with an extraordinary rapidity; the
conversation of the old man was so varied, so instructive, that it was impossible to listen to
him without being charmed by all that he said. “Let us return to our abode.” After having
pronounced these words, he looked at the sun and cried: “Brilliant star, image of the Divinity,40
thou who vivifies the earth and gives life to nature, receive my homage; may I ere I leave the
earth constantly enjoy thy light.”
“What has given birth to these somber ideas,” I immediately cried. “Why do you think of
leaving earth?”
“Ah, my son! Each day which passes, each that we take leads us towards the tomb. Lucky is
the just man who can go to sleep in peace in the care of God to enjoy thereafter the rewards
promised to virtue. Also, my son, do you believe that I do not concern myself with my last
hour? At my age it is permitted to think of it, and I have always lived in a manner so as to be
able to die without fear. I am 270 years old, and I have seen many things pass; I will pass also
when my turn comes. And now enough of this matter. I see that I trouble you, and that is not
my intention. Let us talk of other things.
“The talisman and ring (Figure No. 20) will furnish you with the means to win at lotteries. I
wish also to indicate to you an infallible calculation to obtain the same advantages. It is really
very simple. You take a game of piquet composed of thirty-two cards. You shuffle them, cut
and extract nineteen cards one after the other commencing with that which is underneath.
Take their numbers: know, the ace is 11, the king 4, the queen 3, the knave 2, and the other
cards their numerical value. Add up the total. Then add the 30 or 31 days of the month in
which you find yourself, your age, the day of your birth, that is to say, the first, second or
third or such other day, and a date when you have proved something happy or agreeable: you
add all these numbers, you take a third of it, and you place in the lottery the numbers which
this addition has given you. You can be certain that these numbers will come out in totality or
in part on the different wheels. For instance, if you find the numbers 13, 52, 73, you can take
again 31, 25, 37, and the unities. This calculation is infallible. You can convince yourself.
The number 30 is priviledged, and it is from this that all is calculated for 3 times 30 makes
90; it is from this that one does not wish to exceed this number in the lottery. It is the same
with all games.
“The numbers which have 3 for a root are the most fortunate; odd is all. God, after having
created the world and being occupied for six days in establishing the admirable order which
exists, rested on the seventh, which is odd. Let us take God as an example and a model in all
that we do and we will be assured in all that we undertake. You have noticed, my son, that
odd numbers are the basis of all the mysterious operations into which I have initiated you.”
We continued our route and arrived at the Pyramid. He opened the door, and we went down.
Arriving in the hall, we sat down on a sofa which faced the table on which was the casket of
the tasilmans. The old man replaced the one which had served to clear away the Arabs, and
we remained in silence for some time.
The old man appeared tired. He reclined on the and soon he was asleep. I cast my eyes on his
venerable figure, and I admired his serenity, Calmness spread over all his features. I
remarked about this to the spirit who told me: “It is the image of his soul. I have obeyed him
for more than a century. You cannot have any idea of his virtue, of his wisdom, of his
goodness. His days are numerous, and all are marked by some good deed, of the unhappy he
has rescued without their ever knowing who the being was who came to their help. If the
eternal Soul who has created all should take the figure of a mortal, it is his which He would
borrow. Is not the just man in effect the image of God on earth? Many have taken title, but
how many have usurped it and merited little.” After having pronounced these words, the
spirit got up, knelt on the ground near the old man, and raising his hands and eyes towards
heaven, said in a solemn tone which awed me:41
“Eternal Spirit, Who hears me and Who reads heart, prolong the life of this virtuous man.
Ensure that he adorns by his presence for a long time to come the earth which You enrich
with Thy gifts, unless You have reserved for him near Thee a reward worthy of him.”
The sentiments with which he expressed these words keenly moved me. Tears wet my eyes,
and I fell on my knees as he had.
The old man awoke at this moment, and casting his eyes on us, he said to us with a smile,
“What are you doing, my children?” I answered that we were praying to the Great Being to
conserve our father for us. “My good friends,” answered the old man, “our life has a term set
by Providence which we cannot extend: everything begins, everything must end; God alone is
eternal. The only thing which can survive us is the memory of our virtues and the good
examples which we have set. While like voyagers we can perceive the course of our destiny
and what good or evil we have done as we have been more or less the slaves of our passions,
happy is he who has been able to command himself and to distinguish the happiness which is
praiseworthy from what is not. For myself, I have been happy enough; I made the distinction
in the springtime of my life, and in the winter I taste the sweetness. I shall soon return into
the bosom of Him who has created me; a dream announced it to me in my sleep. In a few
hours my soul will leave its mortal remains and will rise towards the celestial regions.”
“Oh heavens! my father,” I cried, “what do you announce?”
“What you must await like myself, my dear son but I bless my departure since I have the
consolation in dying of leaving my heritage to a man who is deserving, who loves virtue, who
practices it, and who will never step aside from it. I will inform you of my last wishes, and
you will execute them punctually if you love me and if you are grateful.”
“Oh my father!” I cried, “can you doubt it?”
“No, my dear son, I do not doubt at all. Now listen to me. All these treasures, all the jewels
enclosed in this subterranean apartment, also the talismans and the rings, the slaves, and the
birds which you have seen are yours. To you Odous,” he said to the spirit, “I cannot do more
than pronounce all my tenderness for one whom I have found worthy to succeed me. Love
him, serve him as you would me, and from the Celestial Sphere to which I shall soon arise, I
will watch over you.” He clapped his hands and all the slaves appeared. “Here is your
master,” he said to them. “Be obedient to him, I order you.” They all came and prostrated
themselves at my feet. “Extend your hand over them as a sign of domination,” the old man
said to me. I obeyed. They arose, and the old man’s having made a sign, they disappeared.
He added, “Take the gold urn which you will find in the cabinet on the right and place it on
the table. When I no longer exist, place my body in the middle of this chamber. Take the
aromatic woods, which you will find near the coffers filled with gold, and surround me with
them. After having poured over the pyre the liquid enclosed in the vase suspended from the
roof, you will use the talisman with which I formed the egg in which was enclosed the Black
Hen. After having pronounced the mysterious words, you will set the funeral-pile on fire to
consume my mortal remains. Take the ashes and enclose them in the urn. Conserve them.
Men, cherish my memory; I die content. I would have liked to show you the means of
instructing the little Black Pullet, but Heaven which knows our projects has not wished it so.
Odous will teach you; he also knows this secret. I feel my soul ready to fly away. Come, my
dear son, dry your tears so that I can press you once again to my heart. Remember, death is
only dreaded by the guilty and the unjust man.” I approached him and he gave me a last kiss.
“Good-bye, my dear son,” he said. “Listen to my last wishes.”
While I was still bending over the sofa, he expired. I could not help myself saying, while
sobbing, that the death of the just is sweet and worthy of envy. I fell almost unconscious at42
the feet of my benefactor. Odous brought me back to my senses by observing that we had to
obey our father. We then punctually performed that which he had ordered, and soon there
remained only the ashes of the most just and most virtuous of men.
I said to Odous, “We will leave this day and make all the necessary arrangements for
returning to my country. “I am with you,” answered the spirit. “Your wishes are law for me;
command and I obey.” I had all the slaves brought before me and had them put on French
costumes. It sufficed me to have recourse to the talismans. I had all the treasures and the
effects which were in the underground vaults transported to the banks of the Nile and
provided for the precious urn which I personally kept. Odous found a boat. We went down
the river, and very soon we entered the roadstead where a vessel was about to set sail for
Marseilles. I boarded with all my people, and soon we were in mid-ocean. The captain of the
vessel and the sailors examined us with extreme curiosity. As I spoke all languages at will,
they were even more surprised.
Night came and the wind rose. The captain told me that he feared a storm. I told him that his
vessel was good and would resist it. That which he foretold arrived; the sea became furious.
Fear and despair were on all faces. The pilot could no longer control the ship. Only I, calm
and tranquil, seemed unmoved. Provided with the talisman and ring (Figure No. 9) and
pronouncing the mysterious words, I seized the tiller and the vessel which, the instant before,
was the plaything of the winds and the surrounding waves, sailed forward lightly over the
vast bosom of the sea. The whole crew regarded me as a god, even giving me that name. “I
am but man,” I told them. “My friends, I do not frighten easily, I know the art of navigation,
and you see, it is only necessary to be composed to stand the storm at bay.”
The rest of our voyage was very happy. We arrived at Marseilles, and we passed through
quarantine before stepping ashore. I paid for my passage and that of my followers with a
generosity which astonished the captain. I gave a present to each man of the crew, and I
departed crowned with their blessings. I stayed for some time at Marseilles. Having written to
the place of my birth, I found that my parents no longer were alive. They had died during my
absence leaving me sole heir to their estates which I sold and the proceeds of which were sent
to me. I bought a lovely property on the outskirts of Marseilles, the beautiful sky of Provence
pleasing me. I improved my house, and I had a delightful stay. The riches I possessed were
such that I could obtain at will all that I desired, even to place myself to my satisfaction. I had
a few friends to whom I gave advice, who followed it, and who were all astonished at their
prosperity. They were ignorant as to the source. I did not share my secrets with anyone.
Inclination has made me write this little volume. If those who procure it know how to profit
from it and are worthy of penetrating the mysteries and the secrets it contains, they will
gamble with luck reserved for virtue and wisdom. They must not become discouraged.
Constant and stubborn work will surmount everything says an ancient proverb. They should
thus work, and if success does not crown their efforts, they must lay the blame on themselves.
It is because they are not pure and virtuous. The incredulous, the ignorant, and many others
whom it is useless to designate will treat me as a fool, a visionary, an importunist. It matters
little to me. The truth is there. I do not seek to repel injuries, still less censure. Certain family
libraries, which have no other merit than to get hold of what belongs to others, will perhaps
make haste to publish a surreptitious edition of this work. This is the only thing which I will
punish with a talisman which I am keeping to myself and a ring more curious still. I reserve
for myself the decoration the perpetrator with two ears six inches longer than those provided
of yore for King Midas who had been well judged. It is a warning which I give in passing to
certain editors. You notice that for a sorcerer I do not push my vengeance very far.43
And you, for whom I have written this work, you who seek to enlighten yourself, to
penetrate, to understand the mysteries and the secrets of nature, work with consistency,
persevere, purify yourself to obtain success, the object of your wishes and your desires.
Consider that the smallest stain with which your heart and your soul will be contaminated
will be an invincible obstacle against success. You will see the harbour without being able to
enter and will be shipwrecked at the moment when you believe yourself saved. Watch, pray,
hope. Adieu my dear and well loved readers. May you be able to play with all the ease which
has become my lot. Amen.
The old man did not indicate to me the method of instructing the Black Pullet which he had
hatched, but before expiring, he informed me that Odous would impart the important secret to
me. When we were installed in my home in Marseilles, I reminded him of the old man’s
promise. The Hen was of ordinary size and was eager to satisfy me. It had become so familiar
that it hardly ever left me. I took particular care of it during our voyage, and if I have not
mentioned this fact, it is because I judged it of little importance. We therefore occupied
ourselves with the education of our bird. We placed a piece of gold in the basket where it was
in the habit of sleeping and covered its eyes with the hood of which I have already spoken.
Two or three days after that preliminary operation, each morning when I took it food to eat, it
scratched in its basket, and taking the piece of gold in its beak, it guarded it until I took it.
One can see that the instinct of this bird was as extraordinary as marvelous. Odous said to
me, “I have never yet seen as intelligent a one, but also, it is necessary to admit that our good
and respected father employed a means to give it birth which was known only to himself and
which he had never put into operation in front of me. This proves the tenderness and
friendship he had given you. It will be necessary as from tomorrow to hide a piece of gold in
the garden. We will carry our Hen to some distance, and we will see if she discovers it.” The
next morning we did as agreed. I uncovered the head of my bird; it stayed on my knees for
some time, looking in different directions. Finally, it jumped lightly to the ground and ran to
the foot of a big tree which was opposite us. It started to scratch animatedly. Odous said to
me: “I guarantee that there is some treasure hidden at the foot of that tree. Let the Hen carry
on.” She scratched all the time and to shorten the operation, I took a spade which the gardner
had left nearby, and after having scooped out about two feet, I discovered a case about four
feet square and surrounded with iron bands. As we did not have the key, I sent Odous to find
the talisman (Figure No. 12). He returned promptly and hardly had I attacked the lock with
the ring than it opened, and we discovered several sacks filled with gold and silver, plate,
diamonds, jewels, and several other precious objects which were valued at 1,500,000 francs.
It seemed that these riches had been concealed in this place during the time of the civil
troubles, and as the owners died without revealing their secret, nobody had any knowledge of
this deposit. I had bought this property from distant relatives. I could not prevent myself, nor
could Odous, from admiring the instinct of our Black Hen, but it was equally necessary for it
to find the other piece of hidden gold. We advanced a few steps, and she followed us. Soon
she went ahead of us and stopped near the place where the gold was hidden. She soon found
it and taking it in her beak, she deposited it at my feet. “Charming bird,” I cried! “How
precious you are to me. You have put me in the place of a better man, the most tender and
respected of fathers to me.”
Odous said to me: “See if she will listen to the sacred words which must be pronounced every
day to the Black Hen to indicate to her that she must look for things.” He then articulated
certain words, Nozos, Taraim, Ostus. The Hen appeared to pay attention and to understand
because she started to scratch near us and found a ruby mounted in a golden ring. “I am going
to pronounce three other words which should indicate to her that she should repose near her
master.” He then said: Seras, Coristan, Abattuzas. The Hen came and placed herself at mynazov knihy ==================Grand Grimoire Content.pdf
I. Clauneck
II. Musisin
III. Bechaud
IV. Frimost
V. Klepoth
VI. Khil
VII. Mersilde
VIII. Clisthert
IX. Sirchade
X. Segal
XI. Hicpacth
XII. Humots
XIII. Frucissiere
XIV. Guland
XV. Surgat
XVI. Morail
XVII. Frutimiere
XVIII. HuictiigarasThese are the characters of fifteen inferior spirits:
BUCON CLISTHERT FRUCISSIERE
GULAND MORAIL HICPACTH
FRUTIMIERE HUICTIIGARAS HUMOTS
KHIL MERSILDE MINOSON
SEGAL SIRCHADE SURGATTHE SECOND BOOK
AGLA * ADONAY * JEHOVA
There are other daemons, but as they have no power, we shall not speak of them. The powers
of the eighteen above-mentioned ones are these:
CLAUNECK has power over riches, can cause treasures to be found. He can give great riches
to he who makes a pact with him, for he is much loved by Lucifer. It is he who causes money
to be brought.
MUSISIN has power over great lords, teaches all that happens in the Republics, and the affairs
of the Allies.
FRIMOST has power over women and girls, and will help you to obtain their use.
KLEPOTH makes you see all sorts of dreams and visions.
KHIL makes great earthquakes.
MERSILDE has the power to transport anyone in an instant, anywhere.
CLISTHERT allows you to have day or night, whichever you wish, when you desire either.
SIRCHADE makes you see all sorts of natural and supernatural animals.
HICPACTH will bring you a person in an instant, though he be far away.
HUMOTS can bring you any book you desire.
SEGAL will cause all sorts of prodigies to appear.
FRUCISSIERE revives the dead.
GULAND causes all illnesses.
SURGAT opens every kind of lock.
MORAIL can make anything invisible.
FRUTIMIERE prepares all kinds of feasts for you.
HUICTIIGARAS causes sleep in the case of some, and insomnia in others.
Under Satanachia and Sataniciae are fourty-five [or, according to other versions, fifty-four]
daemons. Four of these, the chiefs, are Sergutthy, Heramael, Trimasael and Sustugriel. The
others are of no great consequence.
These spirits are of great advantage, and they work well and speedily, in the case that they are
pleased with the operator.
Sergutthy has power over maidens and wives, when things are favourable.Heramael teaches the art of healing, including the complete knowledge of any illness and its
cure, He also makes known the virtues of plants, where they are to be found, when to pluck
them, and their making into a complete cure.
Trimasael teaches chemistry and all means of conjuring of the nature of deceit or sleight-of-
hand. He also teaches the secret of making the Powder of Projection, by means of which the
base metals may be turned into gold or silver.
Sustugriel teaches the art of magic. He gives familiar spirits that can be used for all purposes,
and he also gives mandragores.
Agalierept and Tarihimal are the rulers of Elelogap, who in turn governs matters connected
with water.
Nebirots rules Hael and Surgulath. The former (Hael) enables anyone to speak in any language
he will, and also teches the means whereby any type of letter may be written. He is also able to
teach those things which are most secret and completely hidden.
Sergulath gives every means of speculation. In addition, he instructs as to the methods of
breaking the ranks and strategy of opponents. Subject to these are the eight most powerful
subordinates:
I. PROCULO, who can cause a person to sleep for forty-eight hours, with the knowledge of the
spheres of sleep.
II. HARISTUM, who can cause anyone to pass through fire without being touched by it.
III. BRULEFER, who causes a person to be beloved of women.
IV. PENTAGNONY, who gives the two benefits of attaining invisibility and the love of great
lords.
V. AGLASIS, who can carry anyone or anything anywhere in the world.
VI. SIDRAGOSAM, causes any girl to dance in the nude.
VII. MINOSON, is able to make anyone win at any game.
VIII. B UCON, can cause hate and spiteful jealousy between members of the opposite sexes.THE THIRD BOOK
The Invocation.
This is the Invocation:
HELOY + TAU + VARAF + PANTHON + HOMNORCUM + ELEMIATH +
SERUGEATH + AGLA + ON + TETRAGRAMMATON + CASILY.
This Invocation is to be made on virgin parchment, with the characters of the D¾mon upon it,
which causes the intermediary Scirlin to come. For from this depend all the others, and it can
constrain them to appear in spite of themselves, as he has the power of Emperor.
Orison : Preparation.
Lord God Adonay, who hast made man in Thine own image and resemblance out of nothing! I,
poor sinner that I am, beg Thee to deign bless and sanctify this water, so that it may be healthy
for my body and my soul, and that all foolishness should depart from it.
Lord God, all-powerful and ineffable, and who led Thy people out of the land of ®gypt, and
has enabled them to cross the Red Sea with dry feet! Accord me this, that I may be purified by
this water of all my sins, so that I may appear innocent before Thee! Amen.
When the operator has thus purified himself, he is to set about the making of the Instruments
of the Art.
Of the Magical Knife.
It is necessary to have a knife or lancet, of new steel, made on the day and hour of Jupiter with
the Moon crescent. If it cannot be made, it may be bought, but this must be done at the time, as
above.
Having achieved this, you will say the Orison or Conjuration following, which will serve for
the knife and lancet.
Conjuration of the Instrument.
I conjure thee, O form of the Instrument, by the authority of our Father God Almighty, by the
virtues of Heaven and by the Stars, by the virtue of the Angels, and by the virtue of the
Elements, by the virtues of the stones and herbs, and of snow-storms, winds and thunder: that
thou now obtain all the necessary power into thyself for the pefectioning of the achievement of
those things in which we are at present concerned! And this without deception, untruth, or
anything of that nature whatsoever, by God the Creator of the Sun of Angels! Amen.
Then we recite the Seven Psalms, and afterwards the following words:
Dalmaley lamekh cadat pancia velous merroe lamideck caldurech anereton mitraton : Most
Pure Angels, be the guardians of these instruments, they are needed for many things.The Sacrificial Knife.
On the day of Mars [Tuesday] at the New Moon, make a knife of new steel which is strong
enough to cut the neck of a kid with one blow, and make a handle of wood on the same day and
in the same hour, and with an engraver you engrave on the handle these characters:
Then asperge and fumigate it, and you have prepared an instrument for service when and where
you wish.
The Manner of Asperging & Fumigation.
First, there is the Orison which is needful on asperging, and it is thus recited:
In the name of the immortal God, asperge [N] and clean you of all foolishness and all deceit,
and you will be whiter than snow. Amen.
Then pour as the aspersion blessed water thereon, saying:
In the name of the Father + and of the Son + and of the Holy + Ghost, Amen.
These aspersions are necessary for every item of equipment; so also is the fumigation which
follows.
To fumigate, it is necessary to have a cruse, in which you place coal newly kindled with a new
fire, and let it be well ablaze. On this you place aromatics, and when perfuming the article in
question, say the following:
Angels of God, be our help, and may our work be accomplished by you. Zalay, Salmay,
Dalmay, Angrecton, Ledrion, Amisor, Euchey, Or. Great Angels: And do thou also, O Adonay,
come and give to this a virtue so that this creature may gain a shape, and by this let our work
be accomplished. In the name of the Father + and of the Son + and of the Holy + Ghost, Amen.
Then recite the Seven Psalms which come after Judicum tuum Regida and Laudate Dominum
omnes gentes.
Of the Virgin Parchment.
Virgin parchment can be made in many ways. Generally it is made of the skin of a goat or a
lamb, or other animal, which must be virgin.
After inscribing on the blade AGLA, and having fumigated it, the knife will serve you for all
purposes.
Remember that when you make the Sacrifice in order to obtain the virgin parchment from the
kid, all the instruments must be on the altar.You make the baton [or Rod, staff] of the Art from Hazel wood that has never borne, and cut it
with a single stoke on the day and in the hour of Mercury [Wednesday], at the Crescent Moon.
And you engrave it with the needle, the pen or the lancet, in the following characters:
The seal and character of Frimost to be inscribed on the first Rod:
Then you make another baton of Hazel wood, which has never borne, and which is without
seed, and cut it in the day and hour of the Sun [Sunday], and on this you engrave these
characters:
The seal and character of Klippoth is to be inscribed on the second Rod.
This having been done, you say over your baton the following Orison:
Orison.
Most wise, most powerful Adonay, deign to bless, sanctify and conserve this bat™n so that it
may have the necessary virtue, O most holy Adonay, to whom be honor and glory for all time.
Amen.
Of the Lancet.
It is necessary to have a new lancet, conjured and prepared like the knife and sickle. Make it in
the day and hour of Mercury, at the Crescent Moon. Now follows the method of Making the
Sacrifice of the Kid.
Take your goat and place it on a flat surface, so that the throat is uppermost, the better to cut
it. Take your knife and cut the throat with a single stroke, while pronouncing the name of the
Spirit you wish to invoke.
For example, you say:
I kill you in the name and in the honor of [N]. . .
This is to be well understood, and take care that you sever the throat at first, and do not take
two strokes, but see that he dies at the first.
Then you skin him with the knife, and at the skinning make this Invocation:
Adonay, Dalmay, Lauday, Tetragrammaton, Anereton, and all you, Holy Angels of God, come
and be here, and deign to infuse into this skin the power that it may be correctly conserved, so
that all that is written upon it may become perfected.After the skinning, take well-ground salt, and strew this upon the skin, which has been
stretched, and let the salt cover the skin well. Before you use the salt it must have the following
Benediction said over it.
The Benediction of the Salt.
I exorcise you, O creature of the Salt, by the God who is living, the God of all Gods, the Lord
of all Lords, that all fantasies may leave you, and that you may be suitable for the virgin
parchment.
When this is finished, let the skin with the salt upon it remain in the sun for a full day. Then
obtain a glazed pottery jar, and write these characters around it with the Pen of the Art:
Get quicklime and slake this with exorcised water, and put these in the jar. Whe it is liquid
place it in your goatskin, and leave it long enough for the hairs to peel off of themselves.
As soon as the hair is in such a condition as to come off with a touch, remove it from the jar
and peel the hairs with a knife made from carved Hazel. The knife must have had these words
said over it:
O holiest Adonay, put into this wood the power to cleanse this skin, through the holy name
Agason, Amen.
The skin, when peeled, may be stretched over a piece of new wood, and stones are to be placed
on the skin, so that they hold it down. These are to be stones from a river bank. Before placing
the stones, say the following Orison over them.
The Orison of the Stones.
O Adonay, most puissant and all-powerful Lord, allow that these stones may stretch this skin,
and remove from them all wickedness, so that they may possess the required power. Amen.
Of the Aspersion of the Water.
All water used in these experiments must be asperged, by saying this over it:
Lord God, Father, all-powerful, my refuge and my life, help me, Holy Father, for I love you,
God of Abraham, of Isaac, of Jacob, of the Archangels and Prophets, Creator of All. In
humility, and, calling upon Thy holy Name, I supplicate that thou wilt agree to bless this water,
so that it may sanctify our bodies and our souls, through Thee, most holy Adonay, Everlasting
Ruler, Amen.
The skin is allowed to dry after this, and before quitting the spot, say over the parchment:
Je, Agla, Jod, Hoi, He, Emmanuel! Stand guard over this parchment, in order that no spectra
may take charge of it!When the skin is dry it may be removed from its wodden frame, blessed and fumigated, and
then it is ready for use.
It is important that this must not be seen by any women, and more especially during certain
times of theirs [i.e., during menstruation], otherwise it will lose its power. It must also be
known that when you make and use this parchment, you must be clean, pur and chaste.
The operator is to say one Mass of the Nativity then, and all the instruments are to be on the
altar.
Of Aspersion.
You take an asperser made with a bunch of mint, marjoram and rosemary which is secured by
a thread which has been made by a virgin maiden.
The asperger is made in the day and hour of Mercury when the Moon is at its crescent.
Of the Perfumes.
These are to be wood of aloes, incense and mace. As for the mace, this is all that you need for
the circle, and over the perfumes is to be said the following Orison:
The Orison of the Aromatic Perfumes.
Deign, O Lord, to sanctify the creature of this, in order that it may be a remedy for the human
race, and that it may be a remedy for our souls and bodies, through the invoking of Thy holy
Name! Agree that all creatures which may breathe in the vapor of this may have wealth of their
bodies and souls: through the Lord who has fashioned the time eternal! Amen.
Of the Pen of the Art.
Take a new quill, and asperge and fumigate this in the same way as the other instruments, and
when you are cutting its points, say:
Ababaloy, Samoy, Escavor, Adonay: I have from this quill driven out all illusions, so that it
may hold within it with effectiveness the power needed for all those things which are used in
the Art: for both the operations and the characters and conjurations. Amen.
Of the Ink-horn.
You buy a new Ink-horn on the day and in the hour of Mercury. At this time, also, these
characters are [to be] inscribed upon it:
JOD HE VAU HE + METATRON + JOD + KADOS + ELOHIM SABAOTH.
Then newly-made ink is exorcised with this exorcism before being placed in the horn:I exorcise you, Creature of this Ink, by the names Anston, Cerreton, Stimulator, Adonay, and
by the Name of He who created all by one word, and who can achieve all, so that you shall
assist me in my work, and so this work may be accomplished by my desire, and brought to a
successful end through the agreement of God, He who rules all things, and through all things,
omnipresent and eternal. Amen.
Then the ink is to be blessed with this Blessing:
Lord God, Almighty, ruler over all and forever, Thou who dost cause to take place the greatest
wonders in Thy creations, deign to grant the grace of Thy holy spirit through this ink. Bless it,
and sanctify it, and impart to it a special power, that whatever we may say or do or desire may
be accomplished: through Thee, Most Holy Prince, ADONAY. Amen.
The Preperation of the Operator.
When the implements are ready, the operator must prepare himself. This is first done by this
Preparatory Orison:
Lord God, ADONAY, who hast formed man in Thine image, I, the unworthy and sinful,
beseech Thee to sanctify this water, to benefit my body and soul, cause me to be cleansed.
As he says this the operator is to wash his face and hands with the water that he is blessing.
NOTE: This water is to be used for washing the hands and feet, and know alsoÑand know and
know againÑthat it is necessary and most necessary, to abstain three days from sin: and above
all mortally, however much the human frailty may be, and especially guard your chastity.
During the three days, study the book and during this time, pray five times during the day and
four times each night, with the following form:
Astrachios, Asach, Ascala, Abedumabal, Silat, Anabotas, Jesubilin, Scingin, Geneon, Domol:
O Lord my God, Thou who art seated higher than the Heavens, Thou who art seated higher
than the Heavens, Thou who seeth even unto the depths, I pray that Thou unto me the things
which I have in my mind and that I may be successful in them: through Thee, O Great God, the
Eternal and who reigns for ever and ever. Amen. [Shah gives a note of a variation: "Astrocio,
Asath, a sacra Bedrimubal, Felut, Anabotos, Serabilem, Sergen, Gemen, Domos: . . ."]
All this having been done correctly, all that remains is to follow your invocations and draw
your characters and you do as follows.In the day and hour of Mars [Tuesday] the Moon being at the crescent, and at the first hour of
the day—which is a quarter of an hour before sunrise—you will prepare a piece of virgin
parchment, which shall contain all the characters and the invocations of the spirits which you
wish to produce.
For example, in the said day and hour, you will attach to the small finger of the hand (which is
the finger of Mercury) a thread spun by a virgin girl, and pierce the finger with the lancet of the
Art, to get blood from it, with which you form your Scirlin character, as is given at the
commencement of this book. Then write your invocation, which is that which follows.
Invocation to Scirlin.
HELON + TAUL + VARF + PAN + HEON + HOMONOREUM + CLEMIALH +
SERUGEATH + AGLA + TETRAGRAMMATON + CASOLY.
You must write the first letter of your name where is the letter A [in the sign & character of
Scirlin], and that of your surname where is the letter D. The spirit Aglassis, whose character it
is, is very potent to render you service, and will cause you to have power over the other spirits.
Make above the Character of the Spirit that you desire to come, and burn incense in his honor.
Then make the conjuration which is addressed to the spirit that you want to cause to appear,
and burn incense in his honor.
Conjuration for Lucifer.
Lucifer, Ouyar, Chameron, Aliseon, Mandousin, Premy, Oriet, Naydrus, Esmony, Eparinesont,
Estiot, Dumosson, Danochar, Casmiel, Hayras, Fabelleronthou, Sodirno, Peatham, Come,
Lucifer, Amen.
Conjuration for Beelzebuth.
Beelzebuth, Lucifer, Madilon, Solymo, Saroy, Theu, Ameclo, Sagrael, Praredun,
Adricanorom, Martino, Timo, Cameron, Phorsy, Metosite, Prumosy, Dumaso, Elivisa,
Alphrois, Fubentroty, Come, Beelzebuth, Amen.Conjuration for Astaroth.
Astaroth, Ador, Cameso, Valuerituf, Mareso, Lodir, Cadomir, Aluiel, Calniso, Tely, Plorim,
Viordy, Cureviorbas, Cameron, Vesturiel, Vulnavij, Benez meus Calmiron, Noard, Nisa
Chenibranbo Calevodium, Brazo Tabrasol, Come, Astaroth, Amen.
After having said seven times the conjuration addressed to superior spirits, you will see the
spirit at once appear, to do whatever you desire.
Dismissal of the Spirit.
When you have written the conjuration on the virgin parchment, and have seen the spirit, being
satisfied, you can dismiss him by saying this:
Ite in pace ad loca vestra et pax sit inter vos redituri ad mecum vos invocavero, in nomine
Patris + et Filii + et Spiritus Sancti + Amen.
[Go in peace unto your abode and let there be peace between you and I, and be ready to come
to me when you are called, in the name of the Father + and the Son + and of the Holy Spirit +
Amen]
Conjuration for Inferior Spirits.
OSURMY + DELMUSAN + ATALSLOYM + CHARUSIHOA + MELANY + LIAMINTHO
+ COLEHON + PARON + MADOIN + MERLOY + BULERATOR + DONMEDO + HONE
+ PELOYM + IBASIL + MEON + ALYMDRICTELS + PERSON + CRISOLSAY +
LEMON SESSLE NIDAR HORIEL PEUNT + HALMON + ASOPHIEL + ILNOSTREON
+ BANIEL + VERMIAS + SLEVOR + NOELMA + DORSAMOT + LHAVALA + OMOR
+ FRAMGAM + BELDOR + DRAGIN + Come, N. . .
Dismissal of the Inferior Spirit.
Go in peace, N., whence you came, peace be with you, and come every time I shall call you, in
the name of the Father + and of the Son + and of the Holy Spirit + Amen.
Then you will burn the characters, because they will serve only once.
Another Conjuration.
I conjure thee, N., by the name of the Great Living God, Sovereign Creator of all things, that
thou appear in human form, fair and aggreeable, without noise or inconvenience, to answer
truthfully in all the interrogations that I shall make. I conjure thee to do this by the power of the
Holy and Sacred Names.Orison of the Salamanders.
Immortal, eternal, ineffable and Holy Father of all things, who is carried by the revolving
chariot unceasingly, of the worlds which continually revolve: dominator of the Etherian
countries where there is raised the throne of Thy power: above which Thy redoubtable eyes see
all, and Thy holy ears hear allÑaid Thy children whom Thou hast loved since the birth of the
centuries: for thy golden and great and eternal majesty shines above the world, the sky and the
stars, Thou art elevated above all, O sparkling fire, and Thou illuminatest Thyself by Thy
splendor, and there go out from Thy essence untarnishable rays of light which nourish Thy
infinite spirit. That infinite spirit produces all things, and makes the mighty treasure which
cannot fail, to the creation which surrounds Thee, due to the numberless forms of which she
bears, and which Thou hast filled at the start. From this spirit comes also the origin of those
most holy kings who are around Thy throne, and who compose Thy court, O Universal Father!
O Unique One, O Father of happy mortals and immortals! Thou hast created in particular the
powers which are marvellously like the eternal thought, and from Thy adorable essence. Thou
hast established them over the angels, Thou hast created a third kind of sovereign in the
elements. Our cintinual exercise is to worship Thy desires. We burn with the desire to possess
Thee, O Father, O Mother, the most tender of Mothers! O wonderful example of feelings and
tenderness of Mothers! O Son, the flower of all sons! O Form of all forms! Soul, Spirit,
Harmony, and Name of all things, preserve us and we shall be blessed. Amen.
Of the Pentacle and the Manner of Working.
I have put here the form of the Pentacle of Solomon so that you may make the arrangements,
they being of great importance.
When you make your circle, before entering therein, it is to be perfumed with musk, amber,
aloes wood and incense. And for the perfume which you will need for the invocations, that is
incense alone.
It is to be observed that you need to have always a fire during invocations, and when you
perfume, this will be in the name of the spirit that you would invoke. When you are placing the
perfume on the fire, say all the time:
I burn this, N., in the name and to the honor of N.
It is to be remembered that you must hold the invocation in the left hand, and in the right a rod
of elder, and a ladle and a knife are to be at your feet.
When all this is ready, stand inside the circle. If you have companions with you, they are to
hold a hand one of the other. When inside, trace the form of the circle with the knife of the Art.Then pick up the wands, one after the other, reciting the Fiftieth Psalm. When the circle is
complete, perfume and sprinkle it with holy water. Characters are to written at the four corners
of the circle. There are generally four pentacles, one at each point of the compass; and the
spirit is prohibited specifically from entering into the precincts of the circle.
Then the invocations are to be repeated seven times. When the spirit appears, make him sign
the character which you are holding in your hand, which promises that he will come whenever
you may call him. Ask for what you think needed, and he will give it to you.
Dismissal of the Spirit.
Let him go away in these words:
Ite in pace ad loca vestra et pax sit inter vos redituri ad mecum vos invocavero, in nomine
Patris + et Filii + et Spiritus Sancti + Amen.
[Go in peace unto your abode and let there be peace between you and I, and be ready to come
to me when you are called, in the name of the Father + and the Son + and of the Holy Spirit +
Amen]Rare & Suprising Magical Secrets.
The manner of making the Mirror of Solomon, useful for all divinations.
In the name of the Lord, Amen. YE shall see in this mirror anything which you may desire. In
the name of the Lord who is blessed, in the name of the Lord, Amen. Firstly, you shall abstain
from all actions of the flesh, and also from any sin, whether in word or action, during the
period of time laid down herein. Secondly, you must perform acts of good and piety. Thirdly,
take a plate of finest steel, burnished and slightly curved, and with the blood of a white pigeon
write upon it, at the four corners, these names: JEHOVA, ELOYM, METATRON, ADONAY.
Place the steel in a clean, white cloth. Look for the new Moon, in the first hour after the Sun
has set, and when you see it, go to a window, look devoutly towards Heaven, and say:
O Eternal, O King Eternal! God Ineffable! Thou, who hast created all things for the love of
men, and by a concealed decision for the wellbeing of man, deign Thou to look on me, N., who
am Thy most unfit and unworthy Servant, and look upon this, which is my intention.
Deign to send unto me Thine Angel, Anael upon this same mirror; he does command and order
his companionsÑwhom Thou hast formed, O Most Powerful Lord, who hast always been, who
art, and who shall ever be, so that in Thy name they may work and act with equity, giving me
knowledge in everything that I shall seek to know of them.
Now you are to throw down upon the burning embers a perfume. While you are doing this, say:
In this and with this, that I pour forth before Thy face, O God, my God, Thou who art blessed,
Three in One, and in the state of exaltation most sublime, who sits above the Cherubim and
Seraphim, who will judge the earth by fire, hear me!
This is to be said three times. When you have done so, breathe three times upon the surface of
the mirror, and say:
Come, Anael, come: and let it be thy agreement to be with me willingly: in the name + of the
Father, the Most Puissant, in the name + of the Son, Most Wise, in the name + of the Holy
Spirit, the Most Living!
Come, Anael, in the terrific name of Jehova! Come, Anael, by the power of the everliving
Elohim! Come, thee, by the right arm of the mighty Metatron!
Come to me, N., and order thy subjects so that they may make known to me through their love,
joy and peace, the things that are hidden from my eyes.
When you have finished this, raise your eyes toward Heaven and say:
O most powerful Lord, who does cause all things to move in accordance with Thy will, listen to
my prayer, and may my intentions be aggreeable to Thee! O Lord, if it be Thy will, deign to
gaze upon this mirror and sanctify it, that Thy Servant Anael may come thereto with his
companions, and be agreeable to me, N., Thy poor and humble servant! O God, blessed and
raised above all the spirits of Heaven, Thou who livest and reignest for all time. Amen.
When this is done, make the Sign of the Cross over yourself, and also on the mirror on the first
day, and also on the next forty and five days. At the end of this time, the angel Anael willappear to you, like unto a beautiful child. He will greet you, and will order his companions to
obey you.
It does not always require as long as this to cause the angel to appear, however. He may come
on the fourteenth day, but this will depend upon the degree of application and fervor of the
operator.
When he comes, ask him whatever you may desire, and also beg him to come and do your will
whenever you shall call him.
When you want Anael to come again, after the first time, all you have to do is to perfume the
mirror, and say these words: Come, Anael, come, and let it be thy agreement --and the rest of
this prayer to Anael as we have given you above, until the Amen.
Dismissing the Spirit.
When he has answered your questions, and you are satisfied with him, you must send him away
by saying this:
I thank thee, Anael, for having appeared and having fulfilled my requests. Thou mayest
therefore depart in peace, and shall return when I call unto thee.
The perfume of Anael is saffron.
Divination by the Word of Uriel.
To succeed in this operation, he who makes the experiment must do all things which are told
herein. He is to choose a small room or place which for nine days or more has not been visited
by women in an impure state [i.e., during their menstration period].
This place must be well cleaned and consecrated, by means of consecrations and aspersions. In
the middle of the room there is to be a table covered with a white cloth. On this is a new glass
vial full of spring water, brought shortly before the operation, with three small tapers of virgin
wax mixed with human fat; a piece of virgin parchment, and the quill of a raven suitable for
writing with; an inkpot of chine full of fresh ink; a small container of metal with materials to
make a fire.
You must also find a boy of nine or ten years old, who shall be well behaved and cleanly
dressed. He should be near the table.
A large new needle is taken, and one of the three tapers is mounted upon it, six inches behind
the glass. The other two tapers should be positioned at the right and left of the glass, and an
equal distance away.
While you are doing this, say:
Gabamiah, Adonay, Agla, O Lord of Powers, aid us!
Place the virgin parchment on the right of the glass and the pen and ink on the left. Before
starting, close the door and windows.Now stir the fire, and light the wax tapers. Let the boy be on his knees, looking into the glass
vial. He should be bareheaded and his hands joined.
Now the Master orders the boy to stare fixedly into the vial, and speaking softly into his right
ear, he says:
The Conjuration.
URIEL + SERAPH + JOSATA + ABLATI + AGLA + CAILA, I beg and conjure thee by the
four words that God spoke with His mouth to His servant Moses: JOSTA + AGLA + CAILA
+ ABLATI. And by the name of the Nine Heavens in which thou livest, and also by the
virginity of this child who is before thee, to appear at once, and visibly, to reveal that truth
which I desire to know. And when this is done, I shall discharge thee in peace and benevolence,
in the Name of the Most Holy Adonay.
When this conjuration is finished, ask the child whether he sees anything in the vial. If he
answers that he sees an angel or other materialization, the Master of the operation shall say in a
friendly tone:
Blessed spirit, welcome. I conjure thee again, in the Name of the Most Holy Adonay, to reveal
to me immediately . . . . (Here the operator petitions the spirit for what he will.)
Then say to the spirit:
If, for any reason, thou dost not wish what thou sayest to be heard by others, I conjure thee to
write the answer upon this virgin parchment, between this time and the morrow. Otherwise
thou mayst reveal it to me in my sleep.
If the spirit answers audibly, you must listen with respect. If he does not speak, after you have
repeated the supplication three times, snuff the tapers, and leave the room until the following
day. Return the next morning, and you will find the answer written on the virgin parchment, if
it has not been revealed to you in the night.
Divination by the Egg.
The operation of the Egg is to know what will happen to anyone who is present at the
experiment.
One takes an egg of a black hen, laid in the daytime, breaks it, and removes the germ.
You must have a large glass, very thin and clear. Fill this with clear water and into it put the
egg-germ.
The glass is placed in the Sun at midday in summer, and the Director of the operation will
recite the prayers and conjurations of the day.
These prayers and conjurations are such as are found in the Key of Solomon, in which we treat
amply of airy spirits.
And with the index finger, agitate the water, to make the germ turn. Leave it to rest a moment,
and then look at it through the glass, not touching it. Then you will see the answer, and itshould be tried on a working-day, because these are spirits that will come during the times of
ordinary occupations.
If one wishes to see if a boy or a girl is a virgin, the germ will fall to the bottom; and if he (or
she) is not, it will be as usual.
To See Spirits of the Air.
Take the brain of a cock, the powder from the grave of a dead man (which touches the coffin),
walnut oil and virgin wax. Make all [this] into a mixture, wrapped in virgin parchment, on
which is written the words:
GOMERT KAILOETH, with the character of Khil.
Burn it all, and you will see prodigious things. But this experiment should be done only by
those who fear nothing.
To make 3 Girls or 3 Gentlemen appear in your Room, after Supper.
It is necessary to be three days chaste, and you will be elevated.
I. Preparation. On the fourth day, as soon as it is morning, clean and prepare your room, as
soon as you have dressed. You must be fasting at this time. Make sure that your room will not
be disturbed for the whole of the ensuing day. Note that there shall be nothing hanging, neither
anything crosswise to anything else, no tapestries or clothes hanging, and no hats or cages of
birds, or curtains of the bed, and so on.
Above all, make sure that everything is clean in every way.
II. Ceremony. After you have supped, go secretly to your room, which has been cleansed as
already described. Upon the table there is now to be set a white cloth, and three chairs at the
table. In front of each place, set a wheaten roll and a glass of clear and fresh water. Now place
a chair at the side of the bed, and retire, while saying this:
III. Conjuration. Besticitum consolatio veni ad me vertat Creon, Creon, Creon, cantor laudem
omnipotentis et non commentur. Stat superior carta bient laudem omviestra principiem da
montem et inimicos meos o prostantis vobis et mihi dantes que passium fieri sincisibus.
The three people, having arrived, will sit by the fire, eating and drinking, and will thank the
person who has entertained them. If you are a gentleman, three girls will come; but if you are a
lady, three yound men will be involved.
Then the three will draw lots as to whom is to stay with you. If the operator is a man, the girl
who wins will sit in the chair which you have placed by the bed, and she will stay and be with
you until midnight. At this time she will leave, with her companions, without having been
dismissed.
The two others will stay by the fire, while the first entertains you.While she is with you, you may ask her any question, about any art or science, or upon any
subject at all, and she will at once give you a definite reply. You can ask the whereabouts of
hidden treasure, and she will tell you where it is, and how and when to remove it. If the treasure
is under the guardianship of infernal spirits, she will come herself, with her companions, and
defend you against these fiends.
When she leaves, she will give you a ring. If you wear this on your finger, you will be fortunate
at gambling. If you place it on the finger of any woman or girl, you will be able at once to
obtain your will of her. Note: The window is to be left open. You can do this experiment as
often as you please.
To Make a Girl come to You, however Modest she may Be.
Experiment of a marvelous power of the superior intelligences.
Watch for the crescent or the waning moon, and when you see it, make sure that you see also a
star, between the hours of eleven and midnight. Before beginning the process, do thus:
Take a virgin parchment, and write on it the name of the girl whom you desire to come. The
shape of the parchment is to be as you see in this figure:
On the other side of the parchment, write MELCHIAEL, BARESCHAS. Then put the
parchment on the earth, with the part where the name of the person is written next to the
ground. Place your right foot upon the parchment, and your left knee, bent, upon the ground.
Then look to the highest star in the sky, while in this position. In your right hand hold a taper of
white wax, sufficiently large to burn for one hour. Then say the following:
The Conjuration.
I salute thee and conjure thee, O beautiful Moon, O most beautiful Star, O brilliant light which
I have in my hand. By the light which I have in my hand. By the air that I breathe within me, by
the earth that I am touching: I conjure thee. By the names of the spirit princes living in you. By
the ineffable name ON, which created everything! By you, O resplendent angel GABRIEL,
with the planet Mercury, Prince, MICHIAEL and MELCHIDAEL.
I conjure you again, by all the Holy Names of God, so that you may send down power to
oppress, torture and harass the body and soul and the five senses of N., she whose name is
written here, so that she may come unto me. Let her then be tortured, made to suffer. Go, then,
at once! Go, MELCHIDAEL, BARESCHES, ZAZEL, FIRIEL, MALCHA, and alll those who
are with thee! I conjure you by the Great Living God to obey my will, and I, N., promise to
satisfy you.When this conjuration has been said three times, burn the parchment with the taper. On the
next day, take the parchment, put it in your left shoe, and let it stay there until the person whom
you have called comes to seek you out. In the conjuration you must say the date that she is to
come, and she will not be absent.
To Make oneself Invisible.
Collect seven black beans. Start the rite on a Wednesday, before sunrise. Then take the head of
a dead man, and put one of the black beans in his mouth, two in his eyes and two in his ears.
Then make upon his head the character of Morail.
When you have done this, bury the head, with the face upwards, and for nine days, before
sunrise, water it each morning with excellent brandy. On the eighth day you will find the spirit
mentioned, who will say to you: "What wilt thou?"
You will reply: "I am watering my plant." Then the spirit will say: "Give me the bottle, I desire
to water it myself." In answer, refuse him this, even though he will ask you again.
Then he will reach out with his hand, and will display to you that same figure which you have
drawn upon the head. Now you can be sure that it is the right spirit, the spirit of the head.
There is a danger that another one might try to trick you, which would have evil
consequences—and in that case your operation would not succeed.
Then you may give him the bottle, and he will water the head and leave. On the next day--
which is the ninth--when you return, you will find the beans that are germinating. Take them
and put them in your mouth, and look at yourself in the mirror. If you can see nothing, it is
well. Test the others in the same way, either in your own mouth, or in that of a child. Those
which do not confer invisibility are to be reburied with the head.
To Have Gold and Silver, or the Hand of Glory
Tear out the hair of a mare in heat, by the roots, closest to the nature, saying DRAGNE,
DRAGNE, DRAGNE. Then tie them into a knot. Now go out and buy, without dispute over
the price, a new pot of earthenware, which shall have a lid. Return to your house as fast as you
can, fill the pot with water from a spring, until it is not quite full. Place the knotted hairs in it,
cover it, and place it where neither you nor anyone else can see it, for there is danger in this.
After nine days, at the hidden hour, bring out the pot and open it, and you will find that there is
a small animal like a snake therein. This fill jump up. Then say: I ACCEPT THE PACT.
Do not touch the animal with your hand. Place it in a new box, which you have bought for this
purpose, and that withouth bargaining as to price. You must feed the creatue on wheat-husks
alone, daily.
When you need gold or silver, place as much as you require in the box. Go to bed, with the box
at the side of the bed. Sleep, if you desire, for three or four hours. Rise, then, and you will find
that the money you have placed in the box has been doubled. But what you put first into the
box must be left in it.If it is an ordinary-looking snake, you should not ask for more than one hundred francs at each
time. If, however, it has a human face, then you will be able to obtain a thousand francs each
time.
If you want to kill the creature, place in the box instead of its daily husks, some of the flour
which has been used fo the consecration in the first Mass said by the priest.After eating this it
will die. Above all, do not omit anything, because this is not intended as a joke!
Garters for Distances
Go out of the house, fasting; march to your left untilyou find a ribbon-seller. Buy one ell of
white ribbon. Pay what is asked, and drop a farthing (un liard) into the box.
Return home by the same route. Next day do the same, until you have found a seller of pens.
Buy one, as you bought the ribbon. When you are locked in your own room, write with your
own blood on the ribbon the characters of the third line on the plan. This is the right garter.
Those of the fourth line are for the left. [These are presumably the planetary symbols in the
concentric circles of the plan of the Grimoire.]
When this is done, go out. The third day after, take your ribbon and pen, walk to the left until
you find a pastry cook or bakery. Buy a cake or bread for a halfpenny. Go to the first tavern,
order a half bottle of wine, have your glass rinsed three times by the same person, break in
three the cake or bread.
Put the three pieces in the glass with wine. Take the first piece and throw it under the table
without looking at it, saying IRLY, FOR THEE.
Then take the second piece and throw it likewise, saying TERLY, FOR THEE. Write on the
other side of the garter the two names of these spirits with your blood. Throw down the third
piece, saying, ERLY, FOR THEE. Throw down the pen, drink the wine without eating, pay the
cost and go away.
Being outside the town, take the garters, make no mistake as to which is the right and which the
left. This is important. Stamp three times with the foot on the ground, pronounce the names of
the spirits TERLY, ERLY, BALTAZARD, IRLY, MELCHIOR, GASPARD, LET US GO.
Then make your trip.
To Make a Girl Dance in the Nude
Write on virgin parchment the Character of FRUTIMIERE with the blood of a bat. Then put it
on a blessed stone, over which a Mass has been said. After this when you want to use it, place
the character under the sill or threshold of a door which she must pass.
When she comes past, she will come in. She will undress and be completely naked, and will
dance increasingly until death, if one does not remove the character; with grimaces and
contortions which will cause more pity than desire.To See in a Vision Anything from the Past or Future
The two N N which you see in the second small circle mark the place where you put your name
[see To Make a Girl Come to You . . .]. To know what you will, write the names in the circle
on virgin parchment, before sleeping, and put it under your right ear on retiring, saying the
following orison:
Orison
O Glorious Name of Great God the ever-living, to whom all things are present, I am Thy
servant N. . . . Father Eternal, I beg You to send me Thy Holy Angels, who are written in the
Circle and that they shall show me what I want to know, by Jesus Christ our Lord. So be it
Having completed the orison, lie down on your right side, and you will see in a dream that
which you desire to know.
To Nail (an Enemy)
Go to a cemetery, remove a nail from an old coffin, saying:
Nails, I take you, so that you may serve to turn aside and cause evil to all persons whom I will.
In the Name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Spirit. Amen..
When you wish to use it, you must look for a footprint and making the three figures of
GULAND, SURGAT and MORAIL, fix the nail in the middle saying:
Pater noster upto in terra [our father who art on earth]
Hit the nail with a stone, saying:
Curse evil to N . . ., until I remove thee.
Re-cover the place with a little dust, and remember it well, because one cannot remove the evil
which this causes, but by removing the nail, and saying:
I remove thee, so that the evil which thou has caused to N. . ., shall cease. In the Name of the
Father, and of the Son. and the Holy Spirit. Amen.
Then take the nail out, and efface the characters: not with the same hand as you make them, but
with the other. Thus it will be without danger.
FINThe Grimoire Of
HonoriusThe person who desires to invoke the perverse “Spirits of
Darkness must observe a three days’ fast; he must also confess
and approach the Holy Altar. After these three days, upon the
morrow, and at the hour of sunrise, he shall recite the Seven
1
Gradual Psalms, with the accoinpanying Litanies and Prayers,
the whole on his knees; further, he must drink no wine and eat
no meat on that day. Next, he shall rise at midnight on the first
2
Monday of the month, and a priest shall say a Mass of the Holy
2 The three days’ fast must therefore have been regulated so that it expired on the previous
Saturday.3
Ghost. After the consecration, taking the Host in his left
hand,he shall recite the following prayer on his knees :
PRAY ER
My Sovereign Saviour Jesus Christ, Son of the living God!
Thou who for the salvation of all mankind didst suffer the
death of the Cross; Thou who, before being abandoned to
Thine enemies, by an impulse of ineffable love didst institute
the Sacrament of thy Body; Thou who hast vouchsafed to us
miserable creatures the privilege of making daily
commemoration thereof; do Thou deign unto thine unworthy
servant, thus holding thy Living Body in his hands, all strength
and ability for the profitable application of that power with
which he has been entrusted against the horde of rebellious
spirits. Thou art their true God, and if they tremble at the
utterance of Thy Name, upon that Holy Name will I call,
crying Jesus Christ! Jesus, be Thou my help, now and for ever!
Amen.
After sunrise a black cock must be killed, the first feather of
its left wing being plucked and preserved for use at the
required time. The eyes must be torn out, and so also the
tongue and heart; these must be dried in the sun and
afterwards reduced to powder. The remains must be interredat sunset in a secret place, a cross of a palm in height being
set upon the mound, while at each of the four corners the
signs which here follow must be drawn with the thumb :
3 The Mass of Pentecost, except the Epistle, which should be
that of the Tuesday after Pentecost, and the Gradual, for which there are special versicles.On this day also the operator should drink no wine and abstain
from eating meat.
On Tuesday, at break of day, let him say a Mass of the
1
Angels, placing the feather taken from the bird upon the altar,
together with a new penknife. The signs hereinafter
represented must be inscribed on a sheet of clean paper with
the consecrated wine which is the Blood of Jesus Christ :
They should be written upon the altar, and at the end of the
Mass the paper should be folded in a new veil of violet silk, to
be concealed on the morrow, together with the oblation of the
Mass and a part of the consecrated Host.
On the evening of Thursday the operator must rise at midnight,
and, having sprinkled holy water about the
1 The Mass for the Apparition of St. Michael, May 8, with a special Epistle, Gospel, Commemoration,
&c,chamber, he must light a taper of yellow wax, which shall have
been prepared on the Wednesday and pierced in the form of a
cross. When it is lighted he shall recite Psalm lxxvii.2—Attendite,
popule meus, legem meam, &c.—without the Gloria Patri. He
shall then begin the “Office of the Dead” with 1/enite exultemus
Domino, &c. He shall recite Matins and Lauds, but in place of
the versicle of the ninth Lesson 1 he shall say: Deliver us,
O Lord, from the fear of hell. Let not the demons destroy my
soul when I shall raise them from the deep pit, when I shall
command them to do my will. May the day be bright, may the
sun and moon shine forth, when I shall call upon them. Terrible
of aspect are they, deformed and horrible to sight; but do Thou
restore unto them their angelic shapes when I shall impose my
will upon them. 0 Lord deliver me from those of the dread
visage, and grant that they shall be obedient when I shall raise
them up from hell, when I shall impose my will upon them.
After the “Office of the Dead” the operator shall extinguish the
taper, and at sunrise shall cut the throat of a male lamb of nine
days, taking care that the blood does not gush forth upon the
earth. He shall skin the lamb, and shall cast its tongue and heart
into the fire. The fire must be freshly kindled, and the ashes
shall be preserved for use at the proper time. The skin of th~lamb shall be spread in the middle of a field, and for the space of
nine days shall be sprinkled four times every day with holy
water. On the tenth day, before the rising of the sun, the
lambskin shall be covered with the ashes of the heart and
tongue, and with the ashes also of the
2 This Psalm is numbered lxxviii. in the Authorised Version.
1 This is extremely confused; the Office of the Dead does not begin with the Venite exultemus. The
ninth Lesson belongs to the third Nocturne of the Matins. The prayer given in the Grimoire is based on
the verses which it replaces.2
cock. On Thursday , after sunset, the flesh of the lamb shall be
interred in a secret place where no bird can come, and the
priest with his right thumb shall inscribe on the grave the
characters here indicated
Moreover, for the space of three days he shall sprinkle the four
corners with holy water, saying: Sprinkle me, 0 Lord, with
hyssop, and I shall be cleansed! Wash me, and I shall be made
whiter than snow!
After the aspersion let him recite the following prayer,
kneeling with his face towards the east
PRAYER.
Christ Jesus, Redeemer of men, who, being the Lamb without
spot, wast immolated for the salvation of the human race, who
alone wast found worthy to open the Book of Life, impart such
virtue to this lambskin that it may receive the signs which we
shall trace thereon, written with Thy blood, so that the figures,
signs, and words may become efficacious; and grant that this
skin may preserve us against the wiles of the demons; that theymay be terrified at the sight of these figures, and may only
approach them trembling. Through Thee, Jesus Christ, who
livest and reignest through all ages. So be it.
2 The days on which the various operations should be performed have been confused, after the
prevailing manner of the Grimoires.
The Litanies of the Holy Name of Jesus must then be
repeated, but instead of the Agnus Del, substitute:
Immolated Lamb, be Thou a pillar of strength against the
demons3 Slain Lamb, give power over the Powers of Darkness!
Immolated Lamb, grant favour and strength unto the binding of
the Rebellious Spirits. So be it.
The lambskin shall be stretched for eighteen days, and on the
nineteenth day the fleece shall be removed, reduced into
powder, and interred in the same place. The word vellus shall be
written above it with the finger, together with the following
character and the words: May this which hath been reduced into
ashes preserve against the demons through the name of Jesus.
Add also these signsLastly, on the eastern side, the said skin must be
set to dry in the sun for three days, the ensuing characters being
cut with a new knife:
— This being accomplished, recite Psalm lxxi., Deus,
judicium tuum regi da, &c., and cut the following characters
The figure being thus far completed, recite the verses Afferte
Domino, patria’ gentium, occurring in Psalm xcv.:
Cantate Domino Canticum novum, of which the seventh versicle
is: Off erte Domino, Full Del, &c., and cut subsequently these
characters :
— Next recite Psalm lxxvii.: Attendite, popule meus,
legem meam, and compose the following figure:
— Which being accomplished, recite Psalm ii.: Quart’fre,nuerunt gentes et populi ineditati sunt inaniaP Then make
another figure as follows
And recite Psalm cxv.: (_redidi pro pter quod locutus sum.
Finally, on the last day of the month a Mass for the Dead shall
be offered; the prose shall be omitted, and also the Gospel of St.
John, but at the end of the Mass the priest shall recite the Psalm
1
Confitemini Domino quoniam bonus, &c.
In Honour of the Most Holy and August Trinity, the
Father, the Son, and the Holy Ghost. Amen.
The Seventy-two Sacred Names of God.—TRINITAS,
SOTHER, MESSIAS, EMMANUEL, SABAHOT, ADONAY,
ATHANATOS, JESU, PENTAGNA, ARGAGON, ISCHIROS,
ELEYSON, OTHEOS, TETRAGRAMMATON, ELY,
SADAY,
AQUILA, MAGNUS HOMO, Vzsro, FLOS, ORIGO, SALVA-
TOR, ALPHIA AND OMEGA, PRIMIJS, NovissIMus, PRINI
At this point the process of the Grimoire becomes almost
unintelligible. The relation of the seventy-two names apparently
succeeds the Psalm, and is followed by the Second Gospel,
which is not omitted after all. There is then an extension of theDeo Gratias; this concluded the Mass, which seems
immediately followed by the evocation. But the use of the
Pentacles of Solomon and St. John does not appear, in the one
case, till the close of the Conjurations, and not at all in the other.
CIPIUM ET FINIS, PRIMOGENITUS, SAPIENTIA,
VIRTUS,
PARACLITUS, VERITAS, VIA, MEDIATOR,
MEDICUS, SALUS, AGNUS, OVIS, VITULUS, SPES,
ARIES, LEO, LUX, IMAGO, PANIS, JANUA, PETRA,
SPONSA, PASTOR, PROPHETA, SACERDOS,
SANCTUS, IMMORTALITAS, JESUS, CHRISTUS,
PATER, FILIUS H0MINIS, SANCTUS, PATER
OMNIPOTENS, DEUS, AGIOS, RESSURRECTIO,
MISCRIROS, CHARITAS, AETERNAS, CREATOR,
REDEM PTOR, UNITAS, SUM MUM BONUM,
INFINITAS. AMEN.
Hereinafter follow the three small pentacles of Solomon,
and that of the Gospel of St. John.The Beginning of the Holy Gospel according to John.
Glory be to Thee, 0 Lord.
In the beginning was the Word, &c., in extenso, so far as
the end of the fourteenth versicle.
Thanks be to God. Hosanna to the Son of David!
Blessed is He who cometh in the Name of the Lord.
Hosanna in the Highest. We invoke Thee. We adore Thee.
We praise Thee. We glorify Thee, 0 blessed and glorious
Trinity! May the Name of the Lord be blessed, now and
henceforth for ever! Amen. In the Name of the Father, of
the Son, and of the Holy Ghost, Jesus of Nazareth, King of
the Jews. May Christ conquer, reign, command, and
defend me from all evil. Amen.UNIVERSAL CONJURATION.
I, N., do conjure thee, 0 Spirit N., by the living God, by the
true God, by the holy and all-ruling God, who created from
nothingness the heaven, the earth, the sea, and all things that are
therein, in virtue of the Most Holy Sacrament of the Eucharist,
in the name of Jesus Christ, and by the power of this same
Almighty Son of God, who for us and for our redemption was
crucified, suffered death, and was buried; who rose again on the
third day, and is now seated on the right hand of the Creator of
the whole world, from whence he will come to judge the living
and the dead; as also by the precious love of the Holy Spirit,
perfect Trinity. I conjure thee within the circle, accursed one, by
thy judgment, who didst dare to tempt God: I exorcise thee,
Serpent, and I command thee to appear forthwith under a
beautiful and well-favoured human form of soul and body, and
to fulfil my behests without any deceit whatsoever, as also
without mental reservation of any kind, by the great times of the
God of gods and Lord of lords, ADONAY, TETRAGRAM
MATON, JEHOVA, TETRAGRAM MATON, ADONAY,
JEHOVA, OTHEOS, ATHANATOS, ISCHYR0S, AGLA,
PENTACRAM MATON, SADAY, SADAY, SADAY,
JEHOVA, OTHEOS, ATHANATOS a Liciat
TETRAGRAMMATON, ADONAY, ISCHYROS,
ATHANATOS, SADY, SADY, SADY, CADOS, CADOS,CADOS, ELOY. AGLA, AGLA, AGLA, ADONAY,
ADONAY.
I conjure thee, Evil and Accursed Serpent, N.. to appear at my
will and pleasure, in this place, before this circle, without
tarrying, without companions, without grievance, without noise,
deformity, or murmuring. I exorcise thee by the ineffable names
of God, to wit, Gog and Magog, which I am unworthy to
pronounce; Come hither, Conic hither, Come hither.
Accomplish my will and desire, without wile or falsehood.
Otherwise St. Michael, the invisible Archangel, shall presently
blast thee in the utmost depths of hell. Come, then, N., to do my
will.
The Grand Pentacle of SalomonA.P.
Why tarriest thou, and why delayest? What doest thou? Make
ready, obey your master, in the name of the Lord, BATHAT or
RACHAT flowing over ABRACM ENS, ALCHOR or
ABERER.
L. Q. L. F. A. P.
Behold the Pentacle of Solomon which I have brought into thy
presence! I command thee, by order of the great God,
ADONAY, TETRAGRAMMATON, and JEsUs!
Hasten, fulfil my behests, without wile or falsehood, but in all
truth, in the name of the Saviour and Redeemer, Jesus Christ.DISCHARGE.
Go in peace unto your places. May there be peace between us
and you, and be ye ready to come when ye are called. In the
Name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost.
Amen.
ACT OF THANKSGIVING.
Praise, honour, glory, and blessing be unto Him who sitteth
upon the throne, who liveth for ever and ever. Amen.
CONJURATION OF THE BooK.1
I conjure thee, 0 Book, to be useful and profitable unto all who
shall have recourse to thee for the success of their affairs. I
conjure thee anew, by the virtue of the Blood of Jesus Christ,
contained daily in the chalice, to be serviceable unto all those
who shall read thee. I exorcise thee, in the name of the Most
Holy Trinity, in the name of the Most Holy Trinity, in the name
of the Most Holy Trinity!
What follows must be said before the sealing of the Book.I conjure and command you, 0 Spirits, all and so many as ye are,
to accept this Book with good grace, so that whensoever we may
read it, the same being approved and recognised as in proper
form and valid, you shall be constrained to appear in comely
human form when you are called, accordingly as the reader shall
judge. In no circumstances shall you make any attempt upon the
body, soul, or spirit of the reader, nor inflict any harm on those
who may accompany him, either by mutterings, tempests, noise,
scandals, nor yet by lesion or by hindrance in the execution of
the commands of this Book. I conjure you to appear
immediately when the conjuration is made, to execute without
dallying all that is written and enumerated in its proper place in
the said book. You shall obey, serve, instruct, impart, and
perform all in your power for the benefit of those who command
you, and the whole without illusion. If perchance some of the
invoked spirits be unable to come or appear when required, they
shall be bound over to send others vested with their power, who
also shall swear solemnly to execute all that the reader may
demand, and ye are all hereby enjoined by the Most Holy
Names of the Omnipotent Living God, ELOYM, JAH, EL,
ELOY, TETRAGRAMMATON, to fulfil everything as it is set
forth above. If ye obey me not, I will force you to abide in
torments for a thousand years, as also if any one of you receive
not this Book with entire resignation to the will of the reader.1 This is the Liber Spirituum of Pseudo-Agrippa, sufficiently described in Part I. The introduction of it
in this Grimoire presupposes either an acquaintance in the reader or information which is omitted.CONJURATION OF THE DEMONS.
In the Name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy
Ghost. Take heed! Come, all Spirits! By the virtue and power of
your King, and by the seven crowns and chains of your Kings,
all Spirits of the Hells are forced to appear in my presence
before this pentacle or circle of Solomon, whensoever I shall
call them. Come, then, all at my orders, to fulfil that which is in
your power, as commanded. Come, therefore, from the East,
South, West, and North! I conjure and command you, by the
virtue and power of Him who is three, eternal, equal, who is
God invisible, consubstantial, in a word, who has created the
heavens, the sea, and all which is under heaven.
After these Conjurations you shall command them to
affix the Seal.
CONCERNING THE FIGURE OF THE CIRCLE.
Circles should be described with charcoal or holy water,
sprinkled with the wood of the blessed Cross.The Magic Circle of Honorius
When they have been duly made, and the words have been
written about the circle, the holy water which has served to bless
the same may also be used to prevent the spirits from inflicting
any hurt. Standing in the middle of the circle, you shall
command them in a lively manner, as one who is their master.
What must be said in Composing the Circle.
0 Lord, we fly to Thy virtue! 0 Lord, confirm this work! What
is operated in us becomes like dust driven before the wind, and
the Angel of the Lord pausing (sic), let the darkness disappear,
and the Angel of the Lord ever pursuing, ALPHA, OMEGA,
ELY, ELOTHE, FLOHIM, ZABAHOT, FLION, SADY.Behold the Lion who is the conqueror of the Tribe of Judah, the
Root of David! I will open the Book, and the seven seals
thereof. I have beheld Satan as a bolt falling from heaven. It is
Thou who hast given us power to crush dragons, scorpions, and
all Thine enemies beneath Thy feet. Nothing shall harm us, not
even ELOY, ELOHIM, ELOHE, ZABAHOT, ELI0N,
ESARCHIE, ADONAY, JAH, TETRAGRAMMATON, SADY.
The earth is the Lord’s and all those who dwell therein, because
He established it upon the seas and prepared it in the midst of
the waves. Who shall ascend unto the mountain of the Lord?
Who shall be received in his Holy Place? The innocent of hands
and clean of heart. Who bath not received his soul in vain, and
hath not sworn false witness against his neighbour. The same
shall be blessed of God, and shall obtain mercy of God to his
salvation. He is of the generation of those who seek Him. Open
your gates, ye princes, open the eternal gates, and the King of
Glory shall enter! Who is this King of Glory? The Lord
Almighty, the Lord, mighty in battle. Open your gates, ye
princes! Lift up the eternal gates. Who is this King of Glory?
The Lord Almighty. This Lord is the King of Glory. Glory be to
the Father, &c.To dismiss them, the Pentacle of Solomon must be exhibited, at
the same time saying a-s follows :— Behold your sentence!
Behold that which forbids
rebellion to our wills, and doth ordain you to return unto your
abodes. May peace be between us and you, and be my will.
CONJURATION OF THE KING OF THE EAST.
I conjure and invoke thee, 0 powerful King of the East Magoa,
by my holy labour, by all the names of Divinity, by the name of
the All-Powerful: I command thee to obey, and to come to me,
or that failing, forthwith and immediately to send unto me
Massayel, Ariel, Satiel, Arduel, Acorib, to respond concerning
all that I would know and to fulfil all that I shall command. Elsethou shalt come verily in thine own person to satisfy my will;
which refusing, I shall compel thee by all the virtue and power
of God.
The Grand Pentacle or Circle of Solomon will answer for the
above and following Conjurations, which can be said on all days
and at all hours. If it be desired to speak only with one spirit,
one only need be named, at the choice of the reader.
CONJURATION OF THE KING OF THE SOUTH.
0 Egym, great King of the South, I conjure and invoke thee by
the most high and holy Names of God, do thou here manifest,
clothed with all thy power; come before this circle, or at least
send me forthwith Fadal, Nastrache, to make answer unto me,
and to execute all my wishes. If thou failest, I shall force thee by
God Himself.
CONJURATION OF THE KING OF THE WEST.
0 Baymon, most potent King, who reignest in the Western
quarter, I call and I invoke thee in the name of the Deity! I
command thee by virtue of the Most High, to send me
immediately before this circle the Spirit Passiel Rosus, with all
other Spirits who are subject unto thee, that the same may
answer in everything, even as I shall require them. If thoufailest, I will torment thee with the sword of fire divine; I will
multiply thy sufferings, and will burn thee.
CONJURATION OF THE KING OF THE NORTH.
0 thou, Amaymon, King and Emperor of the Northern parts, I
call, invoke, exorcise, and conjure thee, by the virtue and power
of the Creator, and by the virtue of virtues, to send me presently,
and without delay, Madael, Laaval, Bamlahe, Belem, and
Ramath, with all other Spirits of thine obedience, in comely and
human form! In whatsoever place thou now art, come hither and
render that honour which thou owest to the true living God, who
is thy Creator. In the name of the Father, of the Son, and of the
Holy Ghost, come therefore, and be obedient, in front of this
circle, without peril to my body or soul. Appear in comely
human form, with no terror encompassing thee. I conjure thee,
make haste, come straightway, and at once. By all the Divine
names— SECHIEL, BARACHIEL—if thou dost not obey
promptly, BALANDIER, suspensus, iracundus, Origratiumgu,
Partus, Olemdemis, and Bautratis, N. I exorcise thee, do invoke,
and do impose most high commandment upon thee, by the
omnipotence of the living God, and of the true God; by the
virtue of the holy God, and by the power of Him who spake and
all things were made, even by His holy commandment the
heaven and earth were made, with all that is in them! I adjurethee by the Father, by the Son, and by the Holy Ghost, even by
the Holy Trinity, by that God whom thou canst not resist, under
whose empire I will compel thee; I conjure thee by God the
Father, by God the Son, by God the Holy Ghost, by the Mother
of Jesus Christ, Holy Mother and perpetual Virgin, by her sacred
heart, by her blessed milk, which the Son of the Father sucked,
by her most holy body and soul, by all the parts and members of
this Virgin, by all the sufferings, afflictions, labours, agonies
which she endured during the whole course of her life, by all the
sighs she uttered, by the holy tears which she shed whilst her
dear Son wept before the time of His dolorous passion and on
the tree of the Cross, by all the sacred holy things which are
offered and done, and also by all others, as in heaven so on
earth, in honour of our Saviour Jesus Christ, and of the Blessed
Mary, His Mother, by whatsoever is celestial, by the Church
Militant, in honour of the Virgin and of all the Saints. In like
manner, I conjure thee by the Holy Trinity, by all other
mysteries, by the sign of the Cross, by the most precious blood
and water which flowed from the side of Jesus Christ, by the
sweat which issued from His whole body, when He said in the
Garden of Olives: My Father, if it be possible, let this chalice
pass from me—I conjure thee by His death and passion, by His
burial and glorious resurrection, by His ascension, by the
coming of the Holy Ghost. I adjure thee, furthermore, by the
crown of thorns which was set upon His head, by the bloodwhich flowed from His feet and hands, by the nails with which
He was nailed to the tree of the Cross, by the holy tears which
He shed, by all which He suffered willingly through great love
of us: by the lungs, the heart, the hair, the inward parts, and by
all the members, of our Saviour Jesus Christ. I conjure thee by
the judgment of the living and the dead, by the Gospel words of
our Saviour Jesus Christ, by His preachings, by His sayings, by
all His miracles, by the child in swaddling-clothes, by the crying
child, borne by the mother in her most pure and virginal womb;
by the glorious intercession of the Virgin Mother of our Saviour
Jesus Christ; by all which is of God and of His Most Holy
Mother, as in heaven so on earth. I conjure thee by the holy
Angels and Archangels, and by all the blessed orders of Spirits,
by the holy patriarchs and prophets, by all the holy martyrs and
confessors, by all the holy virgins and innocent widows, and by
all the saints of God, both men and women. I conjure thee by the
head of St. John the Baptist, by the milk of St. Catherine, and by
all the Saints.
CONJURATION FOR EACH DAY OF THE WEEK.
For Monday, to Lucifer.This experience is commonly performed between eleven and
twelve o’clock, or between three and four. Requisites: coal, and
consecrated chalk to compose the circle, about which these
words must be written: I forbid thee, Lucifer, in the name of the
Most Holy Trinity, to enter within this circle. A mouse must be
provided to give him; the master must have a stole and holy
water, an air also and a surplice. He must recite the Conjuration
in a lively manner, commanding sharply and shortly, as a lord
should address his servant, with all kinds of
menaces: SATAN, RANTAM, PALLANTRE, LUTAIS, C0RI-
CACOEM, SCIRCIGREUR, I require thee to give me very
humbly, &c.Conjuration
I conjure thee, Lucifer, by the living God, by the true God, by
the holy God, who spake and all was made, who commanded
and all things were created and made! I conjure thee by the
ineffable name of God, ON, ALPHA and OMEGA, ELOY,
ELOYM, YA, SADAY, LUX, MUGIENS, REX, SALUS,
ADONAY, EMMANUEL, MEssIAs; and I adjure, conjure, and
exorcise thee by the names which are declared under the letters
V, C, X, as also by the names
JEHOVAH, SOL, AGLA, RIFFAs0RIs, ORIsT0N,
ORPHITNE, PHATON, IPRETU, OCIA, SP1~RATON,
IMAGON, AMUL, PENATON, SOTER,
TETRAGRAMMATON, ELOY, PREMOTON, SITMON,
PERIGARON, IRATATON, PLEGATON, ON, PEROHIRAM,
TIRos, RUBIPHATON, SIMULATON, PERPI, KLARIMUM,
TREMENDUM, MERAY, and by the most high ineffable
names of God, GALl, ENGA, EL, HABDANUM, INGODUM,
OBU ENGLABIS, do thou make haste to come, or send me N.,
having a comely and human form in no wise repulsive, that he
may answer in real truth whatsoever I shall ask him, being also
powerless to hurt me, or any person whomsoever, either in body
or soul.
For Tuesday, to Frimost.1This experience is performed at night from nine to
ten o’clock, and the first stone found is given to him. He is to be
received with dignity and honour. Proceed as on Monday;
compose the circle, and write about it:
Obey me, Frimost! Obey me, Frimost! Obey me, Frimost!
CONJURATION.
I conjue and command thee, Frimost, by all the names
wherewith thou canst be constrained and bound! I exorcise thee,
Nambroth, by thy name, by the virtue of all spirits, by all
characters, by the Jewish, Greek, and Chaldean conjurations, by
the confusion and malediction, and I will redouble thy pains and
torments from day to day for ever, if thou come not now to
accomplish my will and submit to all that I shall command,
being powerless to harm me, or those who accompany me,either in body or soul.
For Wednesday, to Astaroth.
This experience is performed at night, from ten to eleven
o’clock; it is designed to obtain the good graces of the King and
others. Write in the circle as follows:
Come, Astaroth! Come, Astaroth! Come, Astaroth!
CONJURATION.
I conjure thee, Astaroth, wicked spirit, by the words Christ of
Nazareth, unto whom all demons are submitted, who wasconceived of the Virgin Mary; by the mystery of the Angel
Gabriel, I conjure thee; and again in the name of the Father, and
of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost; in the name of the glorious
Virgin Mary, and of the Most Holy Trinity, in whose honour do
all the Archangels, Thrones, Dominations, Powers, Patriarchs,
Prophets, Apostles, and Evangelists sing without end;
Hosannah, Hosannah, Hosannah, Lord God of Hosts, who art,
who wast, who art to come, as a river of burning fire! Neglect
not my commands, refuse not to come. I command thee by Him
who shall appear with flames to judge the living and the dead,
unto whom is all honour, praise, and glory. Come, therefore,
promptly, obey my will, appear and give praise to the true God,
unto the living God, yea, unto all His works; fail not to obey me,
and give honour to the Holy Ghost, in whose name I command
thee.This experience is made at night, from three to four o’clock, at
which hour he is called, and appears in the form of a King. A
little bread must be given him when he is required to depart; he
renders man happy and also discovers treasures. Write about the
circle as follows:
Holy God! Holy God! Holy God!
CONJURATION.
I conjure thee, Silcharde, by the image and likeness of Jesus
Christ our Saviour, whose death and passion redeemed the entire
human race, who also wills that, by His providence, thou appear
forthwith in this place. I command thee by all the Kingdoms of
God. Act—I adjure and constrain thee by his Holy Name, by
Him who walked upon the asp, who crushed the lion and the
dragon. Do thou obey me, and fulfil my commands, being
powerless to do harm unto me, or any person whomsoever,
either in body or soul.For Friday, to Bechard.
This experience is peformed an night from eleven to twelve
o’clock, and a nut must be given to him. Write within the circle:
Come, Bechard! Come, Bechard! Come, Bechard!CONJURATION.
I conjure thee, Bechard, and constrain thee, in like manner, by
the Most Holy Names of God, ELOY, ADONAY, ELOY,
AGLA, SAMALABACTAY, which are written in Hebrew,
Greek and Latin; by all the sacraments, by all the names written
in this book; and by him who drove thee from the height of
Heaven. I conjure and command thee by the virtue of the Most
Holy Eucharist, which hath redeemed men from their sins; I
conjure thee to come without any delay, to do and perform all
my biddings, without any prejudice to my body or soul, without
harming my book, or doing injury to those that accompany me.
For Saturday, to Guland.1
This experience is performed at night from eleven to twelve
o’clock, and so soon as he appears burnt bread must be given
him. Ask him anything you will, and he will obey you on the
spot. Write in his circle: Enter not, Guland! Enter not, Guland!
Enter not, Guland!CONJURATION.
I conjure thee, 0 Guland, in the name of Satan, in the name of
Beelzebuth, in the name of Astaroth, and in the name of all other
Spirits, to make haste and appear before me. Come, then in the
name of Satan and in the names of all other demons. Come to
me, I command thee, in the name of the Most Holy Trinity.
Come without inflicting any harm upon me, without injury to
my body or soul, without maltreating my books, or anything
which I use. I command thee to appear without delay, or, that
failing, to send me forthwith another Spirit having the same
power as thou hast, who shall accomplish my commands and be
submitted to my will, wanting which, he whom thou shalt sendme, if indeed thou comest not thyself, shall in no wise depart,
nor until he bath in all things fulfilled my desire.1
For Sunday, to Surgat.
This experience is performed at night from eleven to one o’clock.
He will demand a hair of your head, but give him one of a fox, and
see that he takes it. His office is to discover and transport all
treasures, and perform anything that you may will. Write in his
circle:
TnTRAGRAM MATON, TETRAGRAM MATON,
TETRAGRAM MATON. ISMAEL, ADONAY, IHUA. And in a
second circle:
Come, Surgat! Come, Surgat t Come, Surgat!CONJURATION.
I conjure thee, 0 Surgat, by all the names which are written in
this book, to present thyself here before me, promptly and without
delay, being ready to obey me in all things, or, failing this, to
despatch me a Spirit with a stone which shall make me invisible to
every one whensoever I carry it! And I conjure thee to be
submitted in thine own person, or in the person of him or of those
whom thou shalt send me, to do and accomplish my will, and all
that I shall command, without harm to me or to any one, so soon as
I make known my intent.
Very Powerful Conjuration for all days and hours of the Day or
Night, being for Treasures hidden by men or Spirits, that the
same may be possessed and transported.I command you, 0 all ye demons dwelling in these parts, or in what
part of the world soever ye may be, by whatsoever power may
have been given you by God and our holy Angels over this place,
and by the powerful Principality of the infernal abysses, as also by
all your brethren, both general and special demons, whether
dwelling in the East, West, South, or North, or in any side of the
earth, and, in like manner, by the power ofGod the Father, by the
wisdom of God the Son, by the virtue of the Holy Ghost, and by
the authority I derive from our Saviour Jesus Christ, the only Son
of the Almighty and the Creator, who made us and all creatures
from nothing, who also ordains that you do hereby abdicate all
power to guard, habit, and abide in this place; by whom further I
constrain and command you, nolens volens, without guile or
deception, to declare me your names, and to leave me in peaceable
possession and rule over this place, of whatsoever legion you be
and of whatsoever part of the world; by order of the Most Holy
Trinity, and by the merits of the Most Holy and Blessed Virgin, as
also of all the saints, I unbind you all, spirits who abide in this
place, and I drive you to the deepest infernal abysses. Thus: Go, all
Spirits accursed, who are condemned to the flame eternal which is
prepared for you and your companions, if ye be rebellious and dis-
obedient. I conjure you by the same authority, I exhort and callyou, I constrain and command you, by all the powers of your
superior demons, to come, obey, and reply positively to what I
direct you in the name of Jesus Christ. Whence, if you or they do
not obey promptly and without tarrying, I will shortly increase
your torments for a thousand years in hell. I constrain you
therefore to appear here in comely human shape, by the Most High
Names of God, HAIN, L0N, HILAY, SABAOTH, HELIM,
RADISH~~, LEDIEHA, ADONAY, JEHOVA, YAH,
TETRAGRAMMATON, SADA!, MESSIAS, AGIOS,
ISCHYROS, EMMANUEL, AGLA, Jesus who is ALPHA and
OMEGA, the beginning and the end, that you be justly established
in the fire, having no power to reside, habit, or abide in this place
henceforth; and I require your doom by the virtue of the said
names, to wit, that St. Michael drive you to the uttermost of the
infernal abyss, in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the
Holy Ghost. So I conjure thee, Acham, or whomsoever thou mayst
be,
by the Most Holy Names of God, by MALHAME, JAE,
MAY, MABRON, JACOB, DASMEDIAS, EL0Y, ATERESTIN,
JANASTARDY, FINI5, AGIos, JSCHYROS, OTHEOS, ATHAN-
ATOS, AGLA, JEHOVA, HOM0SION, AGA, MESSIAS,
SOTHER,
CHRISTUS VINCIT, CHRISTUS IMPERAT, INCREATUSSPIRITUS SANCTUS.
I conjure thee, Cassiel, or whomsoever thou mayest be, by all the
said names, with power and with exorcism! I warn thee by the
other sacred names of the most great Creator, which are or shall
hereafter be communicated to thee; hearken forthwith and
immediately to my words, and observe them inviolably, as
sentences of the last dreadful day of judgment, which thou must
obey inviolately, nor think to repulse me because I am a sinner, for
therein shalt thou repulse the commands of the Most High God.
Knowest thou not that thou art bereft of thy powers before thy
Creator and ours? Think therefore what thou refusest, and pledge
therefore thine obedience, swearing by the said last dreadful day of
judgment, and by Him who bath created all things by His word,
whom all creatures obey. P. per sedem Balda’rey et per gratiam et
diligentiam tuam habuisti ab eo ha~ic n&atimanamilam, as I
command thee.The Grand Grimoire
With
The Great Clavicle of Solomon
Compiled by:
goldtrend@yahoo.com
Dark Lodge of the Desert Yahoo Group
http://groups.yahoo.com/group/Dark_Lodge/The Grand Grimoire
Chapter I
This Book is so rare and sought after in our country it has been called, by
our Rabbis, the true Great Work. They were the ones who left us this precious
original that many charlatans uselessly wanted to counterfeit, attempting to
imitate the truth that they never found, in order to swindle ingenuous individuals
who have faith in initial encounters without seeking their true Source.
This manuscript has been copied from various writings of the great King
Solomon. This great king spent all of his days in the most difficult search and in
the most obscure and unexpected secrets. In the end he succeeded in all of his
endeavors and he reached his goal of penetrating the most profound dwelling of
the spirits, whom he obliged to obey him by the power of his talisman, the
clavicle, since who else but this powerful genius would have dared bring to light
the thundering words that he made use of to constrain the rebel spirits to his will,
having penetrated up to the celestial beings to learn more thoroughly the secrets
and the powerful words that have the force of a terrible and respected God?
This great King discovered the secrets of which the great Divinity made
use, and then enabled us to understand the influence of the stars, the
constellation of the planets. To prepare the fulminating (or Conjurer’s) rod, with
it’s effects which make the spirits tremble and of which God made use of to arm
the angel who expelled Adam and Eve from the Garden of Eden; with which God
struck down the Rebel Angels, precipitating their pride (or imagination) into the
most horrendous abyss. With the power of this rod clouds are formed,
hurricanes are dispersed and one can make them fall on the part of the earth that
one desires.
Chapter II
Weak men and mortals! Tremble at your temerity when you blindly think
that you possess such a profound science. You are taking your spirit beyond its
spheres. Learn from me that before undertaking this work it is necessary to be
steadfast, constant and most careful to observe exactly, point by point,
everything that I will tell you (without which) everything would rebound to your
disadvantage, confusion and total loss. If, to the contrary, you comply exactly
that which I tell you, you will leave behind your baseness and indigence and you
will have full success in all of your enterprises.
Arm yourselves then with intrepidation, prudence and virtuosity in order to
succeed at this great and immense task, at which I have spent 67 years working
day and night. To succeed at this great goal it is necessary to do exactly that
which I will hereby indicate.
----SolomonPrincipio
You will pass a quarter of a month abstaining from the company of the
opposite sex, so as to not fall into impurity.
Begin the quarter of a month by promising to the great ADONAY, who is
the leader of all of the spirits to have two meals a day every 24 hours of the
above-mentioned quarter month, during which you will eat at midday and
midnight, or at seven in the morning and seven in the evening, reciting the
following prayer before dining for this entire period.
The manner in which one can make any sort of spirit appear, reciting the
great invocation that you will find in this book. So also, the true method of
preparation.
Prayer
“I implore you, O great and powerful ADONAY, head of all spirits. I
implore you O ELOHIM I implore you O JEHOVA, O great King ADONAY,
condescend to be favorable. So it shall be. Amen.”
Then eat your meals, and don’t undress, and sleep as little as possible for
the prescribed quarter of a month, continually thinking of your undertaking and
putting all of your faith and hope in the infinite good of the Great ADONAY.
The second day of this period, you will buy a bloodstone called Ematille
from the druggist and you will always carry it with you and it will preserve you
from all fears and worries since the spirit that you intend to bring into your
servitude will do all that he can to dissuade you from your undertaking, believing
with these means to liberate himself and thereby break the twines of the net that
you begin to fasten around him. This. project must be undertaken only by one
other person, including the Karcist, (the one who must speak to the spirit),
keeping in his hand the fulminating wand.
It is essential to choose a solitary location for this operation, which is far
from any uproar, so that the operator is not interrupted. Following this, you will
buy a young virgin kid, that on the third day of the quarter you will adorn with a
garland of vervain (or, the sacred herb) which you will attach to his head with a
green ribbon. Then you will transport it to the place that has been chosen for
your operation; your right arm will be bare to the shoulder, armed with a blade of
pure steel, a fire of white wood will be lit, you will say the following words with
hope and resolve.First Offering
“I offer you this victim, O great ADONAY, ELOHIM, ARIEL and JEHOVA,
and this in the honor, glory and power of your superior and to all if the spirits, be
so kind, O great ADONAY, as to appreciate it. Amen.”
Following this you will skin the kid and take its skin, putting the rest of it in
the fire until it is reduced to ashes, which you will gather and throw to the rising
Sun pronouncing the following words:
“It is for the honor, glory and power of your name, O ADONAY, ELOHIM,
ARIEL and JEHOVA, that I shed the blood of this victim. Deign yourself to
accept these ashes, O great ADONAY.”
While the sacrifice burns, rejoice in the honor and glory of the great
ADONAY, ELOHIM, ARIEL and JEHOVA taking care to conserve the kids skin to
make the round, or the grand cabalistic circle in which you will stay the day of the
great undertaking. Containing the true composition of the mysterious or
fulminating wand as it is depicted here below.
Chapter III
On the eve of the great undertaking you will search for a rod or wand of
wild hazel tree that has not yet born fruit, at the highest point of the sought-after
branch there should be a second little branch in the form of a fork with two ends;
its length should be nineteen and a half inches.
After having found a branch of this shape, only look at it but abstain from
touching it, waiting for the following day, a day destined for action, in which you
will go and cut it precisely at sunrise, and denude it of its leaves and small twigs,
if there are any of these and with the same blade that was used to skin the
sacrifice, which will still be tainted with its blood; you will cut it when the Sun
starts to break forth on this hemisphere, pronouncing the following words:
“I beseech you, O great ADONAY, ELOHIM, ARIEL and JEHOVA to be
favorable and to give this rod that I am cutting the strength of Jacob and the
virtue of Moses and that of the great Joshua; and I beseech you, O great
ADONAY, ELOHIM, ARIEL and JEHOVA to enclose in this rod all the power of
Samson, the righteous rage of Emmanuel and the Thunderbolt of
ZARIATNATMICK who will avenge man’s affronts on the day of Judgement.”
After having pronounced these great and terrible words, always keeping
your eyes turned toward the rising sun, cut the branch and take it to your room,then take a piece of wood that is of the same thickness as the two ends of the
rod and take it to a Smith to cap the two ends of the fork with the steel blade that
was used to skin the sacrifice, ensuring that the two blades are sharp and when
they are fitted to the two pieces of wood, take them home, putting the two irons
on the true rod yourself, then take a Lodestone, heat it in the fire to magnetize
the points of the rod pronouncing the following words:
“By the power of the great ADONAY, ELOHIM, ARIEL and JEHOVA, I
beseech you to unite all of the materials that I desire by the power of the great
ADONAY, ELOHIM, ARIEL and JEHOVA I command you by the incorruptibility of
water and fire, to separate all of the materials as they were separated the day of
the creation of the world. Amen.”
Following this I assure you (in the honor of the great ADONAY) being
certain that you possess the greatest Treasure of the Light. The following
evening take your rod, the kid skin, the Bloodstone, the two garlands of vervain,
then also, the two candleholders and two pounds of virgin wax that has been
blessed; take also the lodestone and two smooth Flintstones to light the fire also
half a bottle of Spirit of Water and a portion of blessed incense mixed with some
Camfora and four nails that were used in the coffin of a child who has recently
died. Then take yourself to the place where you have to do the Great Work,
doing exactly the following, executing point-by-point the great KABBALISTIC
CIRCLE in the manner indicated.Lucifuge RofocaleChapter IV
Containing the true method to make the great cabalistic circle.
Start by forming a circle with the kid skin that you will nail down with the
four nails, then with the Bloodstone you will make a triangle inside of the circle,
starting from the direction of the rising sun; make also with the Bloodstone the
four letters that are written outside of the circle. So also the saintly name of
Jesus in this manner: † JHS † between two crosses so that the spirits can’t harm
you from behind.
Following this, the Karcist (who is the operator) will let his Associates into
the Triangle and he will also enter without letting himself become frightened by
any noise that he could hear, putting the two candleholders with the two garlands
of vervain to the right and to the left of the internal triangle. That done, light the
two candles and put a new vase in front of you, that is, in front of the Karcist,
filled with the ash of the Willow wood that you have burned earlier that same day.
The Karcist will light it and pouring in a part of the Spirit of Water and part
of the incense and Camfor, and conserving the remaining part to maintain a
continuous flame that will suffice for the entire operation.
Having done everything exactly as has been described here you will
pronounce the following words.
“I present you, O great ADONAY, this incense as the most pure, at the
same time I present you with these ashes which come from the lightest (or finest)
wood. I offer you them, O great ADONAY, ELOHIM, ARIEL and JEHOVA, with ll
my heart and spirit. Condescend, O great ADONAY, to accept them. Amen.”
Pay attention not to have any impure metal on your person but only some
gold or silver coins folded in a piece of paper to throw at the spirit so that he
cannot harm you when he presents himself to you before the circle and while he
takes the coin you will begin the following prayer, arming yourself with courage,
strength and prudence.
Be careful that only the Karcist, or Operator, speaks; the others must
remain silent, even if the spirit interrogates or threatens them.
First Oration
“O great living God, the only and same person, the Father, the Son, and
the Holy Ghost, I adore you with the most profound respect and I submit myselfto your saintly and woryour custody with full faith. I sincerely believe that you are
my creator, my benefactor and my support and master; I declare to you that I
have no other wish but that of belonging to you for eternity. So it shall be.
Amen.”
Second Oration
“O great living God, who created man to be happy in this life and who
created everything for our needs, and who said that everything shall be
dependent on man; be favorable and do not permit that the rebel spirits possess
the treasures that were formed by your hands for earthly needs. Give me, O
great God, the faculty to possess them by the powerful and terrible words of the
Clavicle: ADONAY, ELOHIM, ARIEL, JEHOVA, TAGLA, MATHON. Be
favorable. So shall it be.”
Be careful to maintain your flame with the spirits of the wine, incense and
canphora and then make the following offering.
“I offer you this incense as the purest that I could find, O great ADONAY,
ELOHIM, ARIEL and JEHOVA deign to accept it. O great ADONAY use your
power to be favorable and enable me to succeed in this great undertaking. So it
shall be. Amen.”
First Invocation to Emperor Lucifer
“Emperor Lucifer, prince and master of the rebel spirits, I implore you to
abandon your dwelling, in whatever part of the world you should be, to come and
speak to me. I command and entreat you by the authority of the great living God,
the Father, the Son and the Holy Spirit, to come noiselessly and without giving off
any offensive scents, to respond in a clear and intelligible voice, point by point, to
all that I shall ask you, failing which, thou shalt be most surely compelled to
obedience by the power of the divine ADONAY, ELOHIM, ARIEL, JEHOVA,
TAGLA, MATHON, and by the whole hierarchy of superior spirits, who shall
constrain you against your will.
Second Invocation to Emperor Lucifer
“I command and entreat you Emperor Lucifer, by the authority of the great
living God, by the power of EMMANUEL his Son, your only master and mine, and
by virtue of his precious blood which he spilled to liberate man from his chains, I
order you to abandon your dwelling in whatever part of the world you should be,
swearing to you that I will not give you a moment of rest, but that you come to
speak to me immediately with an intelligent voice or, if you cannot come in
person, send me your messenger Astaroth in human guise noiselessly and
without foul scents otherwise I will strike you and your entire kind with the
blasting rod as far as the bottom of the abysses and it will be with the power ofthese great words of the Clavicle, by ADONAY, ELOHIM, ARIEL, JEHOVA,
TAGLA, MATHON, ALMOZIN, ARIOS, PITHONIA, MAGOTS, SYLPHAE,
TABOTS, SALAMANDRAE, GNOMUS, TERRAE, CELLIS, GODIUS, AQUA;
immediately.”
Warning
Prior to reading of the third invocation, if the spirit doesn’t appear, read the
Clavicle as follows, and strike all of the spirits, putting the two ends of the fork of
your rod in the fire. At this point do not be frightened by the horrible cries that
you will hear because all of the spirits will appear. Before reading the Clavicle,
while the noise continues, read again the third invocation.
Third Invocation to Emperor Lucifer
“I command you, Emperor Lucifer, by the great living God, his dear son
and the Holy Ghost and by the power of the great ADONAY, ELOHIM, ARIEL
AND JEHOVA, to appear now or send me your ASTAROTH. I command you to
abandon your dwelling in whatever part of the world it should be, declaring to you
that if you do not appear immediately, I will strike you and all of your cohorts
again with the blasting rod of the great ADONAY, ELOHIM, ARIEL AND
JEHOVA.”
If the spirit still has not appeared put the two ends of your rod in the fire
and read the following words of Solomon’s Clavicle.
Grand Invocation of the Great Kabbala
“I supplicate you, O Spirit! by the power of the grand ADONAY, to appear
instanter, and by ELOHIM, by ARIEL, by JEHOVA, by AGLA, TAGLA, MATHON,
OARIOS, ALMOAZIN, ARIOS, MEMBROT, VARIOS, PITHONA, MAJODS,
SULPHAE, GABOTS, SALAMANDRAE, TABOTS, GINGUA, JANNA,
ETITNAMUS, ZARIATNATMIX, etc.. A C E C A C J C A C T C M C O C A
C A C M C V C P C M C S C C C S C J C C C G C A C J C F C Z C
etc..”
After having twice repeated these great and powerful words you can be
sure that the spirit will appear in the following manner.
The Apparation of the Spirit
“Here I am, what will you ask of me? Why do you torment my peace? Desist
from striking me again with that terrible rod.”
--------Lucifuge RofocaleLucifuge RofocaleLucifuge RofocaleQuery to the Spirit
“Had you appeared when I called you, I would not have struck you:
consider that if you do not confer upon me that which I ask, I will eternally
torment you.”
---------Solomon
Response of the Spirit
“Do not bother or disturb me further. Tell me immediately what you want.”
--------Lucifuge Rofocale
Query to the Spirit
“I command you to come and speak to me twice daily during the night, or
to those who have the book which you will approve and sign. I will leave it to you
to choose which times are most convenient to you, if you do not want to approve
the following times hereby indicated, that is:
On Monday at nine o'clock and at midnight.
On Tuesday at ten o'clock and at one in the morning.
On Wednesday at eleven o'clock and at two in the morning.
On Thursday at eight and ten o'clock.
On Friday at seven in the evening and at midnight.
On Saturday at nine in the evening and at eleven at night.
Moreover, I command you to give me the nearest treasure and I promise
you as reward the first piece of gold or silver which I touch with my hands on the
first day of every month. Here is what I ask of you.”
---------Solomon
Response of the Spirit
“I cannot grant yhat which you ask of me, if not on this, nor on any others,
unless you give yourself over to me in fifty years, to do with thy body and soul as
I please.
--------Lucifuge RofocaleQuery to the Spirit
“I am going to strike you and all of your cohorts by the power of the great
ADONAY if you do not immediately grant to me that which I ask of you.”
---------Solomon
Warning
Put the two ends of the blasting rod in the fire again; re-reading the great
invocation of the Clavicle, until the spirit submits to your wishes.”
Response and Covenant with the Spirit
“Do not strike me anymore! I promise to do everything that you want.
Two hours at night-time every day of the week, that is:
On Monday at ten o'clock and at midnight.
On Tuesday at eleven o'clock and at one in the morning.
On Wednesday at midnight and at two in the morning.
On Thursday at eight and eleven o'clock.
On Friday at nine in the evening and at midnight.
On Saturday at ten o'clock in the evening and at one in the morning.
I also approve your book and I give my signature in parchment which I will
attach to this book so that you can use it for your needs; I also submit myself to
appear before you whenever I am called and when you open the book and are
purified and have the terrible blasting rod and have prepared the great kabbalistic
circle and Pronouncing the name Rofocale. I promise to appeaer and treat you,
and those who have this book which will bear my signature, considerately and in
a friendly manner as long as you shall call me to order as soon as have need of
me. I shall also induce myself to give you the treasure for which you have asked,
provided that you keep the secret forever; that you shall be charitable towards
the poor and that you give me a gold or silver coin all the first days of every
month. If you neglect to do this things you shall be mine forever.”
--------Lucifuge Rofocale, Approved
The Signature:Response to the Spirit
“I will adhere to your demand.”
---------Solomon
C Centum Regum C
Conjuring Lucifer
LUCIFER, OUIA, KAMERON, ALISCOT, MANDESUMINI, POEMI,
ORIEL, MAGREUSE, PARINOSCON, ESTIO, DUMOGON, DIVORCON,
CASMIEL, HUGRAS, FABIEL, VONTON, ULI, SODIERNO, PETAN! Come
LUCIFER. Amen.
The Promise of the Spirit
First Article
I, Lucifer, am the extremely powerful Emperor, supreme and independent,
free and absolute ruler of the subterranean kingdom, despotic lord over all my
jurisdiction. I, the formidable, terrible, most noble, rule everything in the most
regular fashion, moving and governing the fortunes and misfortunes of my
subjects with absolute power, wise and sagacious, endowed with the most
sublime and luminous character, am the dominator of Europe and of all
misfortunes in general.
Second Article
I promise and swear, in the name of the God of the living, obedience,
promptitude, and submission to the owner of this book; signed and sworn, in the
name of the undersigned and of my aforementioned subjects, and by the virtue of
the oath and signature I swear to adhere to all that will please the owner of this
book.
Third Article
Additionally, as for one of my own subjects that reading my summons from
the first article may cause them to appear at once in the guise of a handsome
young man with a pleasing appearance without making any uproar or noise or
anything else that might cause my master to be offended or frightened, to
respond truthfully and clearly, without duplicity, to his interrogations and to fulfill
that which is commanded of me, with complete loyalty and sincerely, without
spreading scents or any other magical invocations, actions or ceremonies but
rather to appear instantaneously ready to execute your commands.Fourth Article
Without in these occasions ever, ever, ever damaging the countryside or
anything else that springs from the earth. I will accomplish my service and leave
at once without causing any commotion.
Fifth Article
Additionally, I promise and swear to the aforesaid:servitude of all my
subjects to the owner of this book without differentiation in rank, dignity or any
other division but any time, in any weather, season, year, month, week, day, hour
or quarter, that at the moment my invocation is read to provide any of my
subjects to appear in the form of a handsome young man to the service of the
owner of this book and not to leave unless I or my subjects given license with the
simple formula, either from myself or from others.
Sixth Article
Morever, I promise and swear my subjects in the name of God and of
other mysterious dispositions will practice secrecy and invincible loyalty without
ever failing to fulfill my oath and promises.
Seventh Article
Also I promise and swear on behalf of all my subjects to protect and
defend the owner of this book from all misfortunes, dangers and other natural
and accidental occurrences, and for whatever he might want when I am called to
assist him with anything he might need, although it is not noted in this book.
Method of Dismissal
I leave you in peace and I will permit you to retire to wherever you please,
to return immediately with my invocation. In the name of the Father, The Son
and the Holy Spirit. Amen.
Orders of the Spirit
“Follow me and you will come to identify the treasure.”
Then the Karcist, armed with the blasting rod and the Bloodstone, will
leave the circle at that point where the door of mighty ADONAY is figured,
towards the place where the treasure is located, and will follow the spirit; the
others shall not move from there place in the circle and shall remain there without
any fear, despite the noise that they will hear and any vision that they see.The spirit will then take the Karcist to the entrance of the treasure and it
might be that the Karcist will see something like a big dog with a collar that
shines like the Sun that will block the entrance; this is the gnome that you will
drive away from you by presenting the forked part of the rod, then he will walk
towards the treasure. You will follow him and having arrived at the treasure, you
will be surprised to see the person who originally hid it, who will want to throw
himself over it however he will not be able to approach it. It is necessary to be
armed with a sheet of virgin parchment on which you will have written the great
conjuration of the Clavicle which you will throw over the treasure.
At the same time, take a coin as a token of gratitude, and throwing first
one of yours that you have bitten and withdrawing backwards, that is, with your
shoulders back, taking with you all of the coins that you can from the treasure.
The rest can not disappear considering the precautions that have been taken.
Be careful not to turn back despite any noise you might hear since at the time it
will seem to you that all of the mountains of the world are falling on your head.
It is necessary to arm yourself with intrepidity and not to become
frightened, but to remain resolute whilst the Spirit conducts you back to the
entrance of the circle. The Karcist will begin to read the Returning of the spirit,
as follows.
Entreating and Returning of the Spirit
O Prince Lucifer, I am satisfied with you at the present; I leave you in
peace and I will permit you to retire to wherever you please, without making any
noise or leaving bad ordors; think of your promise, since if you fail for even a
moment to fulfill your duties you can be certain that I will strike you eternally with
the fulminating rod of the great ADONAY, ELOHIM, ARIEL and JEHOVA. Amen.
Rendering Thanks
O great God, you who have created all things for the service and utility of
man, we render you humble thanks for all of your generousity which has
overwhelmed tonight and for all your precious favors and for that which you have
granted us, fulfilling all of our desires. At present, O great God, we have come to
know the extent of the power of your great promises taken when you said “seek
and you shall find”, “knock and the door shall be opened”, since you have
recommended that we help the poor; we promise by the great ADONAY,
ELOHIM, ARIEL and JEHOVA to be charitable and to spread over them the rays
of the Sun of which these four powerful divinities have come to cover us. So it
shall be. Amen.C The Second Book C
Second Book containing the Sanctum Regnum of the Clavicle or the true
manner of making pacts, with the names and powers and talents of all of the
great superior Spirits and also the manner of making them appear by the power
of the great invocations of the chapter of the pacts of the Clavicle that forces
them to obey in whatever operation one wishes to execute.
Following other Magick Secrets
The true manner of making pacts with any spirit without them being able to
do you any harm. The true Sanctum Regnum of the great Clavicle otherwise
referred to as Pacta Conventa Daemoniorum which has already been talked
about for a long while, is a necessary thing for the understanding of those who
want to force the spirits and who do not have the capacity to prepare the blasting
rod or the cabalistic circle that were discussed in the preceding book.
The individuals cannot arrive at their goal of forcing any spirit to appear if
they don’t do exactly that which I will hereby describe, concerning the manner of
making pacts with any spirit, whether it is for gaining treasures or for the
enjoyment of some earthly pleasure, or whatever favor one would desire or in
order to discover the most hidden (well-kept) secrets of all of the courts and
cabinets of the world; be it to reveal the most impenetrable thoughts to make or
constrain a spirit to work at night-time at whatever task; to make it hail or storm
wherever it pleases you and you see fit; to render yourself invisible; to have
yourself transported to any part of the earth; to open all of the keyholes and see
everything that occurs in the houses of others; so also to gain understanding of
necromancy or to gain glory, to know all of the qualities and virtues of all the
minerals, vegetables and all of the animals, pure and impure, and to do many
very surprising things.
There is no man who does not become astonished at the discovery that in
making a pact with a spirit one can unveil nature’s greatest secrets that have
remained hidden from the eyes of all men and by means of the great King
Solomon’s Clavicle the true manner of making pacts has been discovered and
that he himself made use of it to acquire many riches and to enjoy many women
and to know the most impenetrable secrets of nature
which one can do any sort of good deed while avoiding any kind of evil.
Finally, at least we will begin by listing the names of the principle spirits
along with their respective strengths and powers; following which we will explain
the pacta dæmoniorum, which contains the manner of making pacts with any
spirits,
with the names of the three principle spirits.The Names and Offices of the Spirits
Lucifer, Emperor
Belzebuth, Prince
Astaroth, Grand Duke
Then come the superior spirits who are beneath the three above-
mentioned, that is:
Lucifuge, Prime Minister
Satanachia, Great General
Agliarept, General
Fleurèty, Lieutenant General
Sargatanas, Brigadier
Nebiros, Camp Marshal
The first seven superior spirits that I will name direct their power over all of
the internal powers and have at their service 18 other spirits that are beneath
them, that is:
1. Bael 7. Buer 13. Loray
2. Agares 8. Gusoyn 14. Valefor
3. Marbas 9. Botis 15. Farai
4. Pruslas 10. Bathim 16. Ayperos
5. Aamon 11. Hursan 17. Naberus
6. Barbatos 12. Eligor 18. GlosialabolasSigns and Characters of the Spirit:
Lucifer
Belzebuth
Astaroth
Lucifuge
Satanachia
Agaliarept
Fleurety
Sargatanas
Nebiros
After having indicated to you the above names of the 18 spirits who are
inferior to the first six already mentioned, it is necessary to understand the
following, that is:Lucifuge commands the first three who are
called Bael, Agares and Marbas.
Satanachia over Pruslas, Aamon and Barbatos.
Agliarept over Buer, Cusgyn and Betis.
Fleurèty over Bathim, Hursan and Eligor.
Sargatanas over Loray, Valefar and Farai.
Nebiros over Ayperos, Naberus and Glosialabolas.
Although there are millions of spirits that are all inferior to those above, it
would be useless to describe them because they are employed by the superior
ones. To work in their place all of these inferior spirits are employed as if they
were workers of slaves.
Now then, in making a pact with one of the first principle spirits, of which
you will have need, it won’t matter which spirit serves you, nonetheless always
ask for the one with which you have made the pact, whether it is one of the three
principle
ones, or one of their subjects which serve you.
Now you come to know the power, science, art and talents at all of the
subject spirits, so that he who you would like to make a pact can find in each one
of the six superior spirits the power that he will need.
The first is the great Lucifuge Rofocale, the infernal Prime Minister who
possesses the power that Lucifer gave him over all worldly riches and treasures.
He has beneath him Bael, Agares and Marbas along with thousands of other
demons or spirits who are his subordinates.
The second is the great Satanacha, the Great General who has the power
to make all young or old. Women submit to him; he commands a strong legion of
spirits and has beneath him Pruslas, Aamon and Barbatos.
Agaliarept, General, has the power to uncover the most well-hidden
secrets of all of the courts and cabinets of the world and reveals the greatest
mysteries; he commands the second legion of spirits and has Guer, Gusoyn and
Boris etc.. under his command.
Fleurèty, Lieutenant General, has the power has the power to do whatever
thing one could want at night-time. He makes hail fall wherever he deigns and
commands a considerably body of spirits and has Bathim, Hursan and Eligor
etc.. beneath him.
Sargatanas, Brigadier, has the power to render one invisible and to
transport you anywhere, to open all of the keyholes and to let you see what is
going on in other houses and to teach you Necromancy. He commands other
brigades of spirits and has beneath him Loray, Valefar and Farai, etc..Naberus, Field Marshal, or Inspector General, has the power to do evil to
whomever he pleases and enables one to find the Hand of Glory and teaches the
qualities of minerals, vegetables and of all of the animals, pure and impure,
possesses the art of foretelling the future, being one of the best Necromancers of
all of the Infernal Spirits. He can go anywhere and inspects all of the Infernal
Militias and has beneath him Ayperos, Naberus and Glosialobolas, etc..
Warning
When you want to make your pact with one of the principal spirits that I
have named, begin the day before the eve of the pact cutting a branch of wild
hazel that has never bloomed with a new blade that has never been used, in the
same manner that I have described in the first book, precisely at the moment that
the sun appears on the horizon.
Then procure a Bloodstone and two candles that have been blessed and
choose a place that nobody can disturb you for the operation.
You can make a pact in a room that is far from turmoil or in some hamlet
of an old, ruined castle so that the spirit has the power to transport the treasure
where he pleases.
Having returned to the opportune place, draw a triangle with the
Bloodstone and you only need to do this operation the first time the pact is made.
Then put the two blessed candles on the sides of the triangle, as is
described in the triangle of the pacts, making the saintly name of Jesus behind,
so that the spirits can not do you any harm.
Following this, go to the center of the triangle with the mysterious rod and
the great invocation of the spirit, the Clavicle, the petition, the pact that you in
mind to make with the spirit, and the sending back of the spirit as will hereby be
explained. If what has been explained up to this point is executed with
exactitude then start to recite the following invocation with hope and steadfast
firmness.
Great Invocation to Summon the Spirit with whom one wishes to the pact
excerpted from The Great Clavicle
“Emperor LUCIFER, master of all the rebel spirits, I ask you to be
favorable in my summons of your Great Minister LUCIFUGE ROFOCALE, since I
wish to make a pact with him. I also request that you, Prince BELZEBUTH,
protect me in my undertaking; O Come ASTAROTH BE propitious and ensure
that the great LUCIFUGE appears to me tonight in human guise and withoutemitting foul odors and he grant me as per the pact that I will present to him, all
of the riches which I require. O great LUCIFUGE,
I request that you abandon your dwelling, in whatever part of the world it should
be, to come and speak with me. Otherwise, I will force you by the power of the
great living God and his dear Son and the Holy Spirit: obey now, or I will eternally
torment you by the authority of the powerful words of Solomon’s great Clavicle of
which he made use to oblige the rebel Spirits to receive his pact; therefore,
appear as quickly as possible or I will continually torment you by the authority of
the powerful words of the Clavicle:
Aglon, Tetragram, vaycheon stimulamaton ezphares Tetragrammaton, olyaram
irion esytion existion eryona onera orasim mozm messias soter Emanuel
Sabaoth ADONAY, te adoro et te invoco. Amen.”
You can be certain that before having finished reading the above-
mentioned powerful words the spirit will appear and will tell you the following.
Apparition of the Spirit
“Here I am. What would you ask of me? Why do you torment my rest?
Answer me!”
--------Lucifuge Rofocale
Request to the Spirit
“I may ask you to make a pact with me so that you make me rich as soon
as possible, otherwise I will torment you by the powerful words of the Clavicle.
--------Karcist
Response of the Spirit
I can not grant your request except on the condition that you give yourself
to me for the next 20 years so that I can use your body and soul as I see fit.
--------Lucifuge Rofocale
Then you will throw him your pact, which must be in your
handwritting on a sheet of virgin parchment, which will consist of these few
words, with your signature written in your blood. Here is the pact:
“I promise to repay the great Lucifuge in 20 years for all of the treasures
that he will give me. On my honor I sign this in good faith.”
--------Signature in bloodResponse of the Spirit
“I can not grant your request.”
--------Lucifuge Rofocale“Follow me and take the treasure I will show you”Second Appearance of the Spirit
Then, in order to force the spirit to obey you, re-read the great Invocation
of the terrible words of the Clavicle, until the spirit appears and tells you the
following:
“Why do you torment me more and more? If you leave me in peace, I will
give you the nearest treasure on the condition that you consecrate a coin to me
all of the Mondays of every month and that you will call me one day every week,
from ten o’clock in the evening until 2 two in the morning. Take your pact which I
have signed; and if you do not maintain your word you will be mine in 20 years.”
--------Lucifuge Rofocale
Response to the Spirit
“I adhere to your demands, on the condition that you enable me to have
the nearest treasure and that I can take it with me right away.”
--------Karcist
Response of the Spirit
“Follow me and take the treasure that I am going to show you.”
--------Lucifuge Rofocale
Then follow the spirit on the path to the treasure that will be indicated (at
the triangle) without taking fright and throw the signed pact over the treasure and
touching it with the rod take as much of it as you can. Then return inside the
triangle, making certain to walk backwards, where you will deposit your treasure
in front of yourself, dismissing the spirit as follows:
The Conjuring and Dismissal of the Spirit with whom the pact is made
“O great LUCIFUGE, I am satisfied with you at present; I will leave you to
peace and permit you to retire to wherever you wish without making any noise or
leaving any bad odors. Think then, about your duty regarding my pact; since, if
the one instant you shirk your obligation, you can be sure that I will torment you
eternally with the great and powerful words of the great Clavicle of the great King
Solomon with which he forced all of the rebel spirits to obey him.”Prayer to the Omnipotent in Thanksgiving
“Omnipotent God, heavenly father, who created all things for the service
and use of man, I humbly thank you, that in your great goodness and that you
have permitted that I could make a pact with a spirit that is a rebel of your
authority and subdue it to obey me in fulfilling all of my needs. I thank you, O
omnipotent God, for the good that you have done me tonight to have shown
myself to be worthy to have granted to me, miserable creature, your precious
favors and to present, great God, now that I have come to know the force and
power of your great promises, when you said: “seek and you shall find”, “knock
and the door shall be opened” as you have recommended to raise the poor,
condescend O great God to inspire me to true sentiment of charity so that I can
spread with this Great Work a great portion of the possessions your great divinity
permitted that I could receive. Let it be, O great God, that I can enjoy these great
riches that I possess, with tranquillity and do not permit any rebel spirit to harm
my enjoyment of these precious treasures over which you permit me to own.
Inspire in me, O great God, the necessary sentiment to unbind me from the grips
of the devil and all maleffcient spirits. I trust, O great God, in the Father, the Son,
and the Holy Spirit and in your saintly protrection. Amen.”
Oration to Protect Oneself from Evil Spirits
“O omnipotent Father, O Mother, the most tender of all mothers, O
admirable example of the sentiments, O Son, O flower of all sons, soul, spirit,
harmony and number of all orders, preserve us, protect us, guide us and be
propitious. Amen.”
CITATIO PRAEDICTORUM SPIRITUM
§ I.
Ubi quem volueris spiritum, hujus nomen et officium supra cognosces:
imprimis autem ab omni pollutione minimum tres vel quatuor dies mundus esto in
prima citatione, sic et spiritus postea obsequentiores erunt; fac et circulum, et
voca spiritum, cum multa intentione primum vere anulum in manu contiietur: inde
banc resitata benedictionem tuo nomine e socii, si praesto fuerit et effectum tui
instituti sortieris, nec detrimentum e spiritibus senties imo tuae animae
perditionem.
§ II.
In nomine domini nostri Jesus Christi, patris et filii et spiritus sancti: sancta
Trinitas et inseparabilis unitas te invoco, ut sis mihi salus et defensio et protectio
corporis et animae meae et omnium rerum mearum. Per virtutem sanctae crucis
et per virtutem passionis tuae deprecor te Domine Jesus Christi, per meritabeatissimae Mariae Virgini et matris tuae atque ominus sanctorum tuorum, ut
mihi concedas gratiam et potestatem divinam super omnes malignos spiritus,
ut quoscumque nominibus invocavero, statim ex omni parte conveniant, et
voluntatem meam perfecte adimpleant qued mihi nihil nocentes, neque timorem
inferentes, sed potens obedientes et ministrantes, tua distincte virtute
praecipiente, mandata mea perficiant. Amen.
Sanctus, sanctus, dominus Deus sabaot, qui venturus est judicare vivos et
mortuos: tu qui es primus et novissimus, rex regum et dominum dominantium
Joth, Agladabrach, Elabiel, anarchi enatiel amaz in sedomel gayes tol ma
elias ischiro atgadatasy mas heli messias per hac tua sancta nomina, et per
omnia alia invocare et obsecro te Domine Jesu Christe, per quam nativitatem per
baptismum tuum, per passionem et crucem tuam, per ascensionem tuam per
adventum Spiritus Sancti paraclite per amaritudinae anime tuae quando exivi de
corpore tuo per quinque vulnera tua, per sanguinem et aquam quae exierant de
corpore tuo, per virtutem tuam, per sacramentum quod dedisti descipuit tui pridie
quam passus fuisti per sanctam Trinitatem, per individuam anitatem, per beatam
Mariam, matrem tuam, per Angelos, et arcangelos, per prophetas et patriarchas,
et per omnes sancto tuos et per omnia sacramenta quae fiant in honore tuo;
adoro et te obsecro, te benedicto tibi, et rogo ut acceptes orationes has et
conjurationes et verba oris mei; quibus uti volucro peto Domine Jesu Christe: da
mihi virtutem et potestatem tuam super omnes angelos tuos, qui de coelo ejecti
sunt ad decipiendum genus humanum; ad attrahendum eos, ad constringendum,
ad ligandum eos pariter et solvendum; et ad congregantum eos coram me; quae
possunt, faciant et verba mea vocem que meam nullo modo contemnant, sed
mihi et dictis meis obediant, et me tineant per humanitatem et misericaridam et
gratiam tuam deprecor et peto et ADONAY amay hora videgora mitay hel
suranay syota y fiesy, et per omnia uomina tua sancta per omnes sanctos et
sanctos tuos, per angelos et archangelos, potestates, dominitiones et virtutes, et
per illud nomen per quod Salomo costringebat daemone et conclusit ipso. Eth
roceban hrangle goth joih athio venoh aubru et per omnium tua nomina quae
scripta sunt in hoc librum et per virtutem sorundem, quatenus me potentem faciat
con gregare contringere omnes tuos spiritus de coelo depulsos ut mihi veraciter
de omnibus meis interrogatis de quibus quaram responsionem veracem tribuant
et omnibus meis mandatis illi satis faciant sine laesione corporis et animae
meae, et omnibus ad me pertinentium, per dominum nostrum Jesum Christum
filium
tuum, qui tecum vivit et tegnat in unitate spiritus sancti Deus, per omnia saecula.
§ III.
O pater omnipotens!, o filii sapiens, o spiritus sante corda hominum illustrans!
vos tres in personis una vero deitas in substantia qui Adam et Evae in peccatis
eorum perpercistis et propter eorum peccata mortem subjesti tu filii turpissima in
lignoque sancte crucis sustinuisti. O misericordissime quando ad tuam confugio
misericordiam, et supplico modis omnibus quibus possum per haec nominasancta tui filii scilicet A et a et per omnia alia sua nomina, quatenus concedas
mihi virtutem et potestatem tual, ut valeam tuos spiritusqui de coelo ejecti sunt,
ante me citare, et ut ipsi mecum loquantur, et mandata mea perficiant statim et
fine mora cum eorum voluntate, sine omni laesione corporis animae et honorum
meorum. Amen.
§ IV.
O summa et eterna virtus altissimi! que te disponente his judicio vocatis
vaycheon stimulamaton esphares tetagrammaton ilioram rion esytio
existioneriona onera brasym moyn messias sodxer, EMMANUEL, SABAOTH,
ADONAY, te adoro, te invoco, totius mentis viribus meis, imploro, quaenus per te
praesentes orationes et consecrationes consequentur videlicet, et ubicumque
maligni spiritus in virtute tuorum dominum sunt vocati, et voluntatem mei
exorcisatores diligenter adimpleant fiat, fiat, fiat. Amen.
The Magick Secret; or
The Art of Speaking with the Dead
For this operation it is necessary to attend midnight mass at Christmas and at
midnight precisely to have a conversation with the inhabitants of the other world
and at the moment that the Priest lifts the Host, bow down and with a frank and
severe voice say “Esurgent mortuit et ac me veniut.” As soon as you have
pronounced these six words it is necessary to go to the cemetery and at the first
tomb that meets your eye offer this prayer:
“Infernal powers, you who bring the turbid in the universe, abandon your
obscure dwelling and retire to the other side of the River Styx.”
Then remain there for a moment of silence. “If you have your power, he or she
that interests me, I supplicate you in the name of the King of Kings to make him
appear before me at the hour and moment that I will indicate to you.”
After this ceremony, which is indispensable to carry out, take a fistful of
earth and spread it as one sows grain in a field, saying in a low voice: “He who is
in dust awake from his tomb and leave his ashes and answer the questions that I
pose him in the name of the Father of all men.”
Then bend a knee to the ground, turning your eyes to the East and when
you see that the doors of the Sun are going to open, arm yourself with the two
bones of the dead man that you will put in a cross of Saint Andrew. Then throw
them at the first temple or church that offers itself to your eyes.
Having well-executed the aforesaid, set out in a western direction and
when you have taken 5,900 steps, lay yourself down to sleep on the ground in anelongated position, holding the palms of your hand against your thighs, and your
eyes to the sky towards the Moon and in this position, call he or she whom you
wish to see, when you see the specter appear, solicit their presence with the
following words “Ego sum te peto, et videre queo.”
After these words, your eyes will be satisfied to see the object that dearest
to you and give you the most pleasurable delight.
When you have obtained from the shadow which you have Invoked, that
which you believe to be to your satisfaction, send it away in this manner: “Return
to the kingdom of the elect, I am content with you and your presence.”
Then picking yourself up, return to the same tomb where you made the
first prayer above which you need to make a cross with the end of your blade
which you will be holding in your left hand.
The reader should not neglect any of the prescribed ceremonies otherwise
he could incur some risk.
Secrets of the Magick Art
Observe that these secrets can not be employed by those
who have not done all that is described in Chapters II, III and IV
of the first book of this volume.
The Composition of Death, or Philosopher's Stone
Take a new earthen pot, put in it a pound of red copper with half a bottle of
Nitric Acid. Boil it for half an hour. Afterwards add three ounces of verdegris
(Copper Carbonate), and boil for one hour. Then add two and a half ounces of
arsenic, and boil one hour. Add three ounces of oak bark, well pulverized, and let
it boil a half hour, add a 64 fluid ounces of rose water boil twelve minutes, then
add three ounces of lampblack, and let it boil until the composition is good. To
see whether it is cooked enough, dip a nail in it; if it adheres, remove it. It will
produce a pound and a half of good gold. If it does not adhere, it is proof that it
has not cooked enough; the liquor can serve four times.
To make the divining rod and make it work
At the moment the sun appears on the horizon, take your left hand a virgin
branch from the wild hazel tree, and cut it in three strokes while saying: I collect
you in the name of ELOHIM, MITRATHON, ADONAY and SEMIPHORAS, so
that you have the virtue of the rod of Moses and Jacob, to discover all that I will
want to know. To make it work, hold it tightly in your hands by the two ends whichmake the fork, and say: I command you in the name of ELOHIM, MITRATHON,
ADONAY and SEMIPHORAS to reveal to me, etc.
To Enchant Firearms
Say: “God has a share in it and the devil has the exit’, and when you fire,
say the following while crossing your left leg over your right: ‘non tradas
Dominum nostrum Jesum Christum. Mathon. Amen.”
To win any time one plays the lottery
Lying down, recite three times the following prayer, after what to you will
put it under your pillow, written on virgin parchment, on which you will have a
mass of the Holy Spirit said, and during sleep the genius of your planet will come
and tell you the hour that you must get your ticket.
“Domine Jesu Christe, qui dixisti ego sum via, veritas et vita, ecce enim
veritatem dilexisti, incerta et occulta sapientiæ tuæ manifestasti mihi, adhuc quæ
reveles in hac nocte sicut ita revelatum fuit parvulis solis, incognita et ventura
unaque alia me doceas, ut possim omnia cognoscere, si et si sit; ita monstra mihi
montem ornatum omni nivo bono, pulchrum et gratum pomarium, aut quandam
rem gratam, sin autem ministra mihi ignem ardentem, vel aquarum currentem vel
aliam quamcumque rem quæ Domino placeat, et vel Angeli ARIEL, Rubiel et
Barachiel sitis mihi multúm amatores et factores ad opus istud obtinendum quod
cupio scire, videre cognoscere et prævidere per illum Deum qui venturus est
judicare vivos et mortuos, et sæculum per ignem. Amen.”
Say three “Our Father” ’s and three “Hail Mary” ’s for the souls left in purgatory.
To speak with the Spirits on the Eve of St. John the Baptist
From eleven at night until Midnight go stand by a fern, and say: “I ask of
God that the spirits with which I wish to speak will appear at precisely midnight”;
and at three-quarters repeat nine times these five words: Bar, Kirabar, Alli, Alla
Tetragrammaton.
To be Insensible to Torture
Write these lines on a small piece of paper, which you will then swallow.
Dismas et gestas damnatur potestas.
Disma et gestas damnatur.
Ad astra levatur.
When you will have to be tortured say: “This rope is so soothing to the my
limbs, like the Holy Virgin’s milk to Our Lord.”To Compel one dance completely naked
On Eve of St. John the Baptist, gather at midnight, three walnut leaves,
three sweet marjoram plants, three myrtle plants, and three vervain plants. Dry it
all in the shade, and make it into a powder. When you want to make use of the
powder, Throw some like a small pinch of tobacco into the air of the room where
there are the people whom you wish to enjoy.
To make oneself invisible
Take a black cat, and a new pot, a mirror, a lighter, coal and tinder.
Gather water from a fountain at the strike of midnight.
After you light your fire, and put the cat in the pot. Hold the cover with your
left hand without moving nor looking behind you, no matter what noises you may
hear.
After having made it boil 24 hours, putthe boiled cat on a new dish. Take
the meat and throw it over your left shoulder, saying these words: “accipe quod
tibi do, et nihil ampliùs.”.
Then put the bones one by one under the teeth on the left side, while
looking at yourself in the mirror; and if they are do not work, throw them away,
repeating the same words each time until you find the right bone; and as soon
you cannot see yourselve any more in the mirror, withdraw, moving backwards,
while saying: “Pater, in manus tuas commendo spiritum meum.” This is bone
you must keep.
To Render Oneself Favorable to Judges
Upon seeing the Judge, say these words: “Phalay, Phalay, Phalay; preside in my
favor, let your power shine. Make me satisfied.”
To be Impervios to White Arms
With the head of a needle, write these words on your arm: Ales C Dales
C Tolas C. Then put the needle in the middle cross, from which no blood will
flow.
To make the garter of twenty miles per hour
Buy a young wolf under one year old, and cut its throat with a new knife, in
the hour of Mars, pronouncing these words: Adhumatis cados ambulavit in
fortitudine cibi ilius; then cut his skin into broad garters of an inch, and write there
upon the same words that you said while slaughtering it. Write the first letter with
your blood, the second with that of the wolf, and continue in the same way until
the end of the sentence.After it is written and dries, it is necessary to cover it by wrapping the
garter in white cloth, and to attach two purple ribbons to the two ends, so to tie
the garters to the knee braces; Make sure that no woman or girl sees the
garters; also remove the garters before crossing a river, Less it loses it’s power.
Formula for a plaster to travel ten miles per hour
Take two ounces of human fat, one ounce of oil of stag, one ounce of oil
of bay-tree, one ounce of fat of stag, one ounce of natural mummy, a half-cup of
spirit of wine, and seven vervain leaves. Boil the whole in a new pot, until half-
reduction, then form a plaster of it on a fresh wolf skin. When you wear it on the
spleen, you go like the wind.
To not fall when you are done, take three drops of blood in a glass of
white wine and soak your feet in the wine.
Composition of the ink for writing pacts
The pacts should not be written with ordinary ink. It must be changed
each time that there is occasion to write a pact, that is to say, whenever the
appellation of a spirit is made. Place river-water in a new, water-proof
earthenware pot, together with the powder described below. Take sprigs of fern
gathered on the Eve of St. John and vine twigs cut in the full moon of March.
Kindle this wood by means of virgin paper, and when the water boils the ink will
be made. It must be changed each time that there is occasion to write, that is to
say, whensoever the appellation of a spirit is undertaken.
10 oz. Of Gall nuts, 3 oz. Of Roman Vitriol or Green Copperas, 3 oz. Of
Rock Alum or dried Gum Arabic. Make a fine powder, and when you would
compose the ink, use as described above.
Solomon’s Mirror
How to Make Solomon’s Mirror
C in nomine domini. amen. C
The manner upon which the Cabbalist Scholars relied to make the Mirror
of Solomon, David’s son, who had the gift of wisdom and the occult science; this
mirror is made in forty-eight days, starting from the New Moon until the following
Full one. You will see (in this mirror) all of the hidden things that you desire in the
name of our Lord.
First, abstain from any carnal action or thought for the entire
aforementioned time and meanwhile do many pious and compassionate deeds.Take a shiny and well cleaned plate of steel and write in the four corners
these precise words in the blood of a White Dove: JEHOVA, ELOHIM,
MITRATHON, ADONAY. Then put the steel plate in a piece of new white cloth
and when you observe the New Moon one hour after the sun has set go to the
window and gazing at the sky and the moon say with devotion: “O rex eternæ
Deus! Creator ineffabilis, qui cuncta as hominis sanitatem meagratio, et occulto
judicio creasti respice me (N.N.), indignissimum servum tuum, et ad intentionem
meam, et mittere mihi dignare angelum Anael, in speculum istud, qui mandet, et
inspiret et jubeat cum sociis suis, et subditis nostris ut in nominee tuo qui fuisti,
es et eris potens, et jus, jud, judicent mihi quecumque ab illis exposcam.”
Take some ashes made from Laurel wood and add some perfume into it in three
shots saying: “In hoc, per hoc, et cum hoc, quod effundo ante conspectum tuum,
Deus meus, trinus et unus benedictus et per excelsus qui vides super Cherubin
et Seraphin et venturus est judicare seculum per ignem.”
Recite this prayer three times, blow on the mirror and then call out this
invocation: “Veni Anael, et tibi complaceat esse per socios tuos mecum, in
nomine patris potentissimi, in nomine filio sapientissimo, in nomine spiritus
amabilissimi. Veni Anael, in nomini terribilis JEHOVA; veni Anael in virtute
immortalis Eliom; veni Anael in brachio omnipotentis Mitraton; veni Anael in
potentia sacratissimi ADONAY; veni ad me (N.N.) in ispeculo isto, et jubeat
subditis tuis ut cum amore gaudio et pace ostendat mihi occulta in oculis meis.
Amen.”
This said, raise your eyes to the sky and say: “Domini Deus omnipotens,
cujus nutu omnia moventur, exaudi deprecationem meum et desiderium meum
tibi complaceat, respice domini speculum istud, et benedice illi ut Anael, unus ex
subditis fuisse sistat in illo cum sociis et satisfaciat mihi famulo tuo (N.N.), cui
vivis et regnas benedictus et excelsus, in saecula saeculorum. Amen.”
After the aforementioned prayer, cross yourself and the mirror, and this
you will do everyday for as long as it takes to make the mirror. In the end, the
angel Anael will appear in the guise of a most handsome young man will greet
you and command his companions to obey you. Be aware that 48 days are not
always necessary to obtain what you intend; often he appears after 14 days, that
depends on the intention and devotion of the Operator.
So when the spirit appears to you, as him everything that you wish and
request that he appear to you whenever you call him to satisfy your requests.
Then you will see everything you wish to see without reciting the preceding
oration; but having anointed him with scent (the scent of Anael is Saffron) say the
following:Oration
“Veni Anael, veni tibi complaceat esse per socios tuos mecum, in nomini
mecum, in nomini Patris potentissimi, in nomini Filii sapientissimi, in nomine
Spiritus Sancti amabilissimi; veni Anael, in virtutis immortalis ELOHIM; veni
Anael,
in brachio omnipotentis Mitraton; veni Anael, in potentia sacratissimi ADONAY;
veni ad me (N.N.) in speculo isto, et jubeas subditis tuis, ut cum amore, gaudio et
pace ostendam mihi occulta inoculis meis. Amen, Amen.”
After you have recited this oration he will appear to you and satisfy all of
your desires.
Method of taking Leave of the angel Anael
“Gratias tibi ago Anael quod venisti, et petitioni meæ satisfecisti, ibi in pace et
placeat tibi redire quando to vocavero.”
Cross yourself and the mirror.
Table of
Auspicious
and
Inauspicious
Days
Auspicious Days Month Inauspicious Days
3, 10, 27 and 31 January 13 and 23
7, 8 and 18 February 2,10,17 and 22
3, 9, 12, 14 and 16 March 13, 19, 23 and 28
5 and 17 April 18, 20, 29 and 30
1, 2, 4, 6, 9 and 14 May 10, 17 and 20
3, 5, 7, 9, 12 and 23 June 4 and 20
2, 6, 10, 23 and 30 July 5, 13 and 27
5, 7, 10, 14 and 29 August 2, 13, 27 and 31
6, 10, 13, 18 and 30 September 13, 16, 18 and 19
13, 16, 25 and 31 October 3, 9 and 27
1, 13, 23 and 30 November 6 and 25
10, 20 and 29 December 15, 26 and 31
Observation
Many wise men believe this table was dictated to Abraham by an angel
and that it determined his actions: he neither sowed nor transplanted except onauspicious days and for this reason everything went marvelously for him. If your
ploughmen did likewise their yield would certainly increase.
The Secret of the Black Hen
The famous secret of the Black Hen, a secret without which one can not
count on the success of any cabala, was lost for a long time: after much
investigation we have succeeded in finding it and the tests which we have carried
out, to assure ourselves that it was positively that which we sought, exactly
matched our expectations. Therefore we are completely satified. It is to share our
happiness with all those who have the courage to imitate us that we have
transcribed it.
Take a Black Hen that has never been laid eggs and that has never been
approached by a rooster and in taking her make certain that she does not cry
out so that you will have to do this at eleven at night, when she is sleeping. Take
her neck and close her throat so that she can not scream.
Then go where two streets form a cross and at midnight precisely make a
circle with a Cyprus branch, go into the middle of the circle and cut the hen’s
body into two parts uttering the following words three times: ELOHIM, ESSAIM,
search and then turn your gaze toward the East, kneel and recite the prayer:
Prayer to the Omnipotent in Thanksgiving
“Omnipotent God, heavenly father, who created all things for the service
and use of man, I humbly thank you, that in your great goodness and that you
have permitted that I could make a pact with a spirit that is a rebel of your
authority and subdue it to obey me in fulfilling all of my needs. I thank you, O
omnipotent God, for the good that you have done me tonight to have shown
myself to be worthy to have granted to me, miserable creature, your precious
favors and to present, great God, now that I have come to know the force and
power of your great promises, when you said: “seek and you shall find”, “knock
and the door shall be opened” as you have recommended to raise the poor,
condescend O great God to inspire me to true sentiment of charity so that I can
spread with this Great Work a great portion of the possessions your great divinity
permitted that I could receive. Let it be, O great God, that I can enjoy these great
riches that I possess, with tranquillity and do not permit any rebel spirit to harm
my enjoyment of these precious treasures over which you permit me to own.
Inspire in me, O great God, the necessary sentiment to unbind me from the grips
of the devil and all maleffcient spirits. I trust, O great God, in the Father, the Son,
and the Holy Spirit and in your saintly protrection. Amen.”Oration to Protect Oneself from Evil Spirits
“O omnipotent Father, O Mother, the most tender of all mothers, O
admirable example of the sentiments, O Son, O flower of all sons, soul, spirit,
harmony and number of all orders, preserve us, protect us, guide us and be
propitious. Amen.”
Great Invocation to Summon the Spirit with whom one wishes to the pact
excerpted from The Great Clavicle
“Emperor LUCIFER, master of all the rebel spirits, I ask you to be
favorable in my summons of your Great Minister LUCIFUGE ROFOCALE, since I
wish to make a pact with him. I also request that you, Prince BELZEBUTH,
protect me in my undertaking; O Come ASTAROTH BE propitious and ensure
that the great LUCIFUGE appears to me tonight in human guise and without
emitting foul odors and he grant me as per the pact that I will present to him, all
of the riches which I require. O great LUCIFUGE,
I request that you abandon your dwelling, in whatever part of the world it should
be, to come and speak with me. Otherwise, I will force you by the power of the
great living God and his dear Son and the Holy Spirit: obey now, or I will eternally
torment you by the authority of the powerful words of Solomon’s great Clavicle of
which he made use to oblige the rebel Spirits to receive his pact; therefore,
appear as quickly as possible or I will continually torment you by the authority of
the powerful words of the Clavicle:
Aglon, Tetragram, vaycheon stimulamaton ezphares Tetragrammaton,
olyaram irion esytion existion eryona onera orasim mozm messias soter Emanuel
Sabaoth ADONAY, te adoro et te invoco. Amen.”
At that moment the foul spirit will appear, dressed in a scarlet outfit with
braids, a yellow shirt, green pants, his head resembles that of a dog, but he has
the ears of an ass, with two horns, legs and feet like a heifer. He will ask you
your demands; you give them as you think best since he will not be able to
disobey you and he can make you one of the richest and therefore happiest of
men.
Before you do what has been explained you need to make vyour
devotions. Say your prayers and be above reproach; this is so essential that in
doing the opposite you could end up at the spirits command, instead of him being
at yours.Other Magick Secrets
To prevent a woman from conceiving
To prevent a woman, with whom you are having relations, from having
children, take a sponge the size of a nutmeg, and soak it with pure milk mixed
with a little fine oil. Put it in her left hand and walk away from her and every time
you do this you will be sure to gave good results.
To find out whether a Woman can have Children
Take the fat of a dear, melt it in hot water; the woman should drink it on an empty
stomach and afterwards take a hot bath. If this gives her pain in her stomach,
then she will have children, otherwise not.
To make Three young Ladies, or rather three Spirits come into your room
after Dinner
Preparation
Eat neither meat nor fatty foods for three days; on the fourth day clean
your room as soon as you have arisen from bed, fast for the entire day and
ensure that no one enters the room all day and that there is nothing hung on the
walls, neither clothes, nor hats, nor bird cages, nor curtains on the windows or on
the bed and above all, put freshly washed white linens on the bed.
Ceremony
After dinner, go secretly to the room that you have prepared, light a good
fire, put a clean white cloth on the table and three chairs around the table and
three loaves of bread and three glasses of clear, fresh water at each place. Then
put a recliner or chair beside your bed and get into bed.
Upon entering the room the three persons will seat themselves beside the
fire and taking refreshment and thank he or she who has received them, since, if
he is a man who makes the ceremony three ladies will come, and if it is a
woman, three men will come. The three spirits will choose by lots among
themselves to determine who will remain seated in the chair beside your bed to
converse with you until midnight.
At midnight she will leave with her companions without you having to ask
her to leave, as for the other two, they will remain by the fire while the other
converses with you beside your bed and you will to ask her about any art or
science that you desire and she will immediately answer your questions, you can
ask her the location of the nearest hidden treasure and she will reveal to you the
most opportune time and place to recover it. She will also be there accompanied
by her two companions to protect you from any infernal spirit who could be inpossession of the treasure. When she leaves, she will give you a ring which will
make you lucky in any game when you wear it and if you place it on a young
maid’s finger you can make her your wife.
Note: Leave the window open so that they may enter and you can repeat
this operation and make them come as many times as you wish. You should
repeat the following prayer after each conjuration:
O summa et eterna virtus altissimi! que te disponente his judicio vocatis
vaycheon stimulamaton esphares tetagrammaton ilioram rion esytio
existioneriona onera brasym moyn messias sodxer, EMMANUEL, SABAOTH,
ADONAY, te adoro, te invoco, totius mentis viribus meis, imploro, quaenus per te
praesentes orationes et consecrationes consequentur videlicet, et ubicumque
maligni spiritus in virtute tuorum dominum sunt vocati, et voluntatem mei
exorcisatores diligenter adimpleant fiat, fiat, fiat. Amen.
To be Lucky in every Enterprise
Take a green frog, cut off its head and his four feet. Then on a Friday with
a full Moon put them in an elder tree and keep them there for twenty-one days,
removing them on the twenty-first dat precisely at midnight.
Then expose the parts of the frog to the light of the Moon for three nights.
Afterwards, dry the frog parts in a new earthernware pot that has never been
used. Take the dried frog parts, and grind to a powder. Mix the powder in equal
measure with earth taken from a cemetery, if possible from the grave of someone
in your family.
Carry the powder mixture with you, it will help you succeed in any
undertaking.
To make a Woman disclose her secrets
Take the heart of a pigeon and the head of a frog. Dry them as above,
and reduce them to fine powder. Put the powder into a little purse, and add
moss for frangrance.
Put the purse under the woman’s ear while she is sleeping, fifteen minutes
later, she will unveil all of her secrets. Make certain to remove the purse a few
minutes after she has stopped speaking otherwise she could fall into delirium.
To see and do the Supernatural
Put a gold studded plate under your tongue, it should be half the size of
your thumb. Under your feet put the border of a mortuary sheet or linen and hold
a quince tree branch in your hand. Abstain from having sexual relations forthirty-five days, for thirty-five is the number that puts you under the protection of
favorable constellations and sorcery and with this secret one can do prodigious
deeds, as did Mousu with this secret did supernatural things.
To make everything in an apartment appear Black.
Soak the wick of the lamp used to light the apartment in well beaten sea
foam, adding to the lamp oil some sulfur and Litharge in equal parts, and all
those who enter the room will appear drunk and delirious.
Glue to attach Crystals
Take some wine spirits and whitest and clearest Gum Arabic. Liquefy the
Gum Arabic with the spirits. Heat up the two broken pieces in the fire, then with
a little brush apply the glue to the two pieces. Attach the two pieces, and hold
together until they have cooled.
Glue to Repair Porcelain Vases
Take two fresh egg whites, mix them together, add a little quicklime. Put a little
of this mixture on the broken pieces, hold them together for two or three minutes.
Then boil them with milk and the cracks will become invisible.
The Secrets of Love
Of reciprocal love between a Man and a Woman
There is nothing more natural to man than loving and being loved.
Without invoking Venus or Cupid, who are the dominant divinities regarding this
noble passion of man, every day produces material substances that are
favorable to success in love.
One often finds on the forehead of a newborn foal, a little piece of flesh
that has marvelous virtue in love. Dry it in a new pot, and wear it, especially on
Fridays, since this is the day dedicated to Venus, Goddess of Love.
Another Love Secret
Take a gold ring that is studded with a small diamond that has not been
worn by anyone. Wrap it in a piece of green fabric and for nine days and nine
nights wear it against your skin over your heart. On the ninth day, before the Sun
rises, engrave the following word inside the ring: Scheva, with a new scribe or
engraver.
Find a way to have three hairs of the person who you want to love you,
unite them with three of your own hairs, while saying: “Body, that you could love
me, that your desires could be as passionate as mine, by Scheva’s most potentvirtue.” Tie the hairs in a love snare knot around the ring. Wrap the ring in a
piece of silk, and wear it against your skin over your heart for another six days.
On the seventh day, Fast. On an empty stomach, unwrap the ring and give it to
the person you desire to love you.
If your ring is accepted then you can be certain to be loved by that person.
If the ring is refused, rest assured that the heart of that person belongs to another
and in that case, you should seek your fortune elsewhere.
Other Secrets that Achieve the Same Effect
Here is the secret that the wise Cabbalists have called “Apple of Love”
which is prepared as follows:
Go pick an apple from a tree on a Friday morning before sunrise. Write
your name with your blood on a piece of paper and also write the name of the
person whom you wish to love you. On another sheet of paper, write the name
Scheva, also in your own blood.
Find a means of procuring three strands of that person’s hair, which you
will unite with three of yours. Cut the apple in half, and remove the seeds. In the
place of the seeds, place the pieces of paper. Take the apple and tie it back
together, with the united hairs, using a green myrtle twig to twist together the two
halves of the apple like a tourniquet.
Dry well in the oven, and wrap them in bay and myrtle leaves. Have a well
trusted person put the apple under the young woman’s pillow without her
noticing. In a few days you will notice the appearance of her love.
FinTHE SECRET GRIMOIRE
THE SECRET GRIMOIRE
OF TURIEL
A SYSTEM OF CEREMONIAL MAGIC
THE GREAT ARCANUM
(The Rites of Ceremonial Magick).
PART I. THE SECRET GRIMOIRE OF TURIEL.
INTRODUCTION.THE SECRET GRIMOIRE
T
HE S.S. Umvoti, on which I was travelling from Beira, Portugese East Africa,
to London, reached Las Palmas in November, 1927, after a very stormy passage.
Like the rest ofthe passengers, I was thankful to get ashore.
The usual vendors, beggars, and guides were soon in evidence. One oid man in
the garb of a peasant offered me his services as a guide, which J gladly accepted.
The man was bearded, swarthy of complexion, and very thin. He spoke in broken
English and snggested that we visit the Cathedral. This we did, and as we walked
the stranger informed me that the Cathedral was founded in the 16th century but
only completed in the 19th, He conducted me to a lift inside the Cathedral, and
smiled at two most corpulent priests who were seated at confessional boxes. The
priests turned their heads away from the guide, who entered the lift with me. Soon
we were speeding upward to enjoy the most enchanting scene imaginable. In the
sunlight, on each bank of the river, lay the houses of the capital Down below the
people walked, Lilliputians in size.
We stood for a considerable time, and indeed I could have remained much longer
drinking in the view, but the guide suggested that we leave. We did so and visited
the bazaars and other plates of interest including taverns where we enjoyed native
cigars and wine.
As we made our way back to the ship my guide produced a little metal crucifix
and some papers which he begged me to buy. He informed me that the papers
were the manuscripts of a system of ceremonial magic, “The Secret Grimoire of
Turiel “. These were the original dated 1518. written in Latin, and a copy written
in English, a translation from the original. The original copy was in fragments,
almost worn away, but the copy was intact. I told the guide the original was not
worth taking, but I would buy the cross and the copy. He agreed to this, and thus I
became the possessor of the Grimoire. Since 1927 I have rewritten the manuscript
owing to the fact that I was on the move so often, and for the sake of convenience
the new writing was entered into a note book of convenient size, and the copy
purchased in Las Palmas I destroyed. I have reason to believe that the present
manuscript is the only one in existence. In. publishing same I feel sure that it will
appeal to all students of occultism as an additional item of interest. It has much to
commend it. Though small in volume it is a complete system of CeremonialTHE SECRET GRIMOIRE
Magic. The former owner admitted that he had made use of the formula contained
therein. For his experiments in the Art he, a former priest, had been defrocked.
This he said was the reason why the two priests in the Cathedral had not
acknowledged his smile.
MARIUS MALCHUS.
Westminster, 1954.
THE SECRET GRIMOIRE OF TURIEL
O
BSERVATIONS and method of Invoking related with great pains and diligent
research.
Retire thyself Seven Days free from all company and fast and pray from sunset to
sunrise. Rise every morning at Seven of the clock, and the three days previous to
the Work fast upon bread and water and humble thyself before Almighty God.
Watch and pray all night before the Work.
And on the day before draw the lines of the Circle in a fair place. and let the
diameter of the Circle be 9 feet. Wash thyself the same day quite clean.
Make the pentacles forthwith and provide the other things necessary, with
Incensing. Then being clothed in pure Vestments and having covered the Altar
and lighted the candies begin about half an hour before sunrise on the Day
assigned for the Work and say with great Devotion as follows:—
First Morning Prayer :— Almighty and Most Merciful Father I beseech Thee
that Thou
wilt vouchsafe favourably to hear me at this time whilst I make my humble prayer
and Supplication unto Thee. I confess unto Thee O Lord Thou hast justly
punished me for my manifold sins and offences but Thou hast promised at what
time soever a sinner doth repent of his sins and wickedness Thou wilt pardon and
forgive him and turn away the remembrance of them from before Thy face.
Purge me therefore O Lord and wash me from all my offences in the Blood of
Jesus Christ that, being pure and clothed in the Vestments of Sanctity, I mayTHE SECRET GRIMOIRE
bring this Work to perfection, through Jesus our Lord who liveth and reigneth
with Thee in the Unity of the Holy Ghost. Amen.
Sprinkle thyself with Holy Water and say —Asperges me Domine hysope, et
mundabor. Lavabis me et super nivem dealbabor.
Hail O Mighty God, for in Thy power alone abideth the Key to all exorcising of
Principalities, Powers, Thrones, Angels and Spirits. Amen.
Then bless your Girdle, saying : —
O God Who by the breath of Thy nostrils framed Heaven and Earth and
wonderfully disposed all things therein in six days, grant that this now brought to
perfection by Thine unworthy servant may be by Thee blessed and receive
Divine virtue, power and Jnfluence from Thee that every thing therein contained
may fully operate according to the hope and confidence of me Thine tmworthy
servant through Jesus Christ our Lord and Saviour. Amen.
The Blessing of the Light
I bless thee in the Name of the Father. O Holy, Holy Lord, God, Heaven and
Earth are fuil of Thy Glory before Whose face there is a bright shining light
forever; bless now, O Lord, I beseech Thee, these creatures of light which Thou
hast given for the Kindly use of man that they, by Thee being sanctifìed, may not
be put out or extinguished by the power, malice, or filthy darkness of the devil,
but may shine forth brightly and lend their assistance to this my Work, through
Jesus Crist our Lord. Amen.
Then say, ‘Asperges me, etc.”
Consecration of the Sword :—
O Great God Who art the God of strength and fortitude and greatly to be feared,
bless O Lord, this Instrument that it may be a terror unto the Enemy, and
therewith I may fight with and over come all phantasms and oppositions of the
Enemy, through the influence and help of Thy most Holy Mighty Name, On, St.THE SECRET GRIMOIRE
Agla, and in the Cross of Jesus Christ our only Lord. Amen.
Be thou blessed and consecrated in the Name of the Father, Son, and Holy Ghost.
Asperges me, etc.
Benediction of the Lamens (Symbois. Circles) :—
O God Thou God of my Salvation I call upon Thee by the mysteries of Thy most
holy Name, On, St. Agla, I worship and beseech Thee by Thy Names El, Elohim,
Elohe, Zebaoth, and by Thy Mighty Name Tetragrammaton, Saday, that Thou
wilt be seen in the power and force of these Thy most holy names so written
filling them with divine virtue and Influence through Jesus Christ our Lord.
Benediction of the Pentacles:— Eternal God which, by Thy Holy Wisdom, hast
caused great power and virtue to lie hidden in the characters and Holy Writings of
Thy Spirits and Angels, and hast given unto man that with them, faithfully used,
power thereby to work many things; bless these, O Lord, framed and written by
the hand of me Thine unworthy servant that being filled with divine virtue and
Influence by Thy Commands, O Most Holy God, they may shew forth their virtue
and power to Thy praise and Glory through Jesus Christ our Lord. Amen.
I bless and consecrate you in the Name of the Father, the Son, and the Holy
Ghost, the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob.
Asperges me, etc. Amen.
Benediction of the Garment
O Holy, blessed and Eternal Lord God Who art the God of purity and delightest
that our souls should appear before Thee in clean and pure and undefiled
Vestments being cleansed, blessed, and consecrated by Thee, I may put them on,
being therewith clothed I may be whiter than snow both in soul and body in Thy
presence this day, in and through the ment, death, and passion of our onty Lord
and Saviour Jesus Christ, Who liveth and reigneth with Thee in the Unity of the
Holy Spirit, ever one God, world without end. The God of Abraham, Isaac and
Jacob bless thee, purge thee, and make thee pure, and be thou clean in the Name
of the Father, Son and Holy Ghost. Amen.THE SECRET GRIMOIRE
In this Thy Holy Sign O God, ¡ fear no evil. By Thy Holy Power, and by this Thy
Holy Sign all evil doth flee.
By Thy Holy Name and Thy Power which Secret was revealed to Moses, through
the Holy Names written in this Book, depart far from me all ye workers of
iniquity.
Bless, O Lord, I beseech Thee, this place and drive away all evil and wickedness
far from it. Sanctify and make it become meet and convenient for Thy Servant to
finish and bring to pass therein his desires, through Jesus Christ our Lord, Amen.
Be thou blessed and purified in the Name of the Father, Son, ami Holy Ghost.
Amen.
Benediction of the Perfumes :— The God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, the
God of Jacob,
bless here the creatures of these kinds that they may give forth the power of their
odours so that neither the Enemy nor any false Imaginaions may be able to enter
into them, through our Lord Jesus Christ, to whom be honour and Glory now,
henceforth, and for ever. Amen.
Sprinkle them with Holy Water, saying, “Asperges me, Domine, etc.”
Exorcism of Fire
I exorcise thee, O thou creature of Fire, by Him by Whom all things are made,
that forthwith thou wilt cast away every phantasm from thee that it shall not be
able to do any hurt in any thing. Bless, O Lord, this creature of Fire and sanctify
it, that it may be biessed to set forth the praise of Thy Holy Name that no hurtTHE SECRET GRIMOIRE
may be able to come unto me, through the virtue and defence of our Lord Jesus
Christ. Amen.THE SECRET GRIMOIRE
Invocation for Sunday (SOL) :— Come, Heavenly Spirits who have the effulgent
rays of the Sun, Luminous Spirits who are ready to obey the power of the great
Tetragrammaton, come and assist me in the operation that I am making under the
auspices of the Grand Light of Day whicb the Eternal Creator hath formed for the
use of universal nature. I invoke you for these purposes. Be favourable and
auspicious to what I shali ask in the Name of Amioram, Adonai, Sabaoth.THE SECRET GRIMOIRE
Invocation for Monday (MOON)
Haste ye Sublime and Intelligent Genil who are obedient to the Sovereigu
Arcana, come and assist me in the operation that I undertake under the auspices
of the Grand Lumiriary of the Night. I invoke you to this end and implore you to
be favourable and hear my entreaties in the Name of Him Who commands the
spirits of the Four Quarters of the Universal Mansions: Inhabit, Bileth, Mizabu,
Abinzaba.THE SECRET GRIMOIRE
Invocation for Tuesday (MARS)
Come Children of the Red Genii who have executed the order of the Sovereign
Master of the Universe upon the armies of the rash Sennacherib, come and assist
me in the operation that I undertake under the auspices of the third brilliant
luminary of the firmament; be favourable to my entreaties in the Name of Adonay
Sabaoth.THE SECRET GRIMOIRE
Invocation of Wednesday (MERCURY) :— Run to me with speed, come to me ye
Spirits of Mercury who preside over the operation of this day, hear favourably the
present invocation that I make to you under the Divine Names of Venoel, Uranel,
be kind and ready to second my undertakings. Render them efficacious.THE SECRET GRIMOIRE
Invocation for Thursday (JUPITER)
Come speedily ye Olepid Spirits who preside over the operation of this day.
Come, Incomprehensible Zebarel and all your legions, haste to my assìstance and
be propitious to my undertakings, be kind and refuse me not your powerful aid
and assistance.THE SECRET GRIMOIRE
Invocation for Friday (VENUS)
Come on the wings of the wind, ye happy Genii who preside over the workings of
the heart. Come in the Name of the Great Tetragrammaton; hear favourably the
Invocation that I make this day, destined to the wonder of love. Be ready to lend
me your assistance to succeed in what I have undertaken under the hope that you
will be favourable to me.THE SECRET GRIMOIRE
Invocation for Saturday (SA TURN)
Come out of your gloomy solitude ye Saturnine spirits, come with your cohort,
come with diligence to the place where I am going to begin my operation under
your auspices; be attentive to my labours and contribute your assistance that it
may rebound to the honour and glory of the Highest.THE SECRET GRIMOIRE
CHARACTER OF ARATRON LORD OF SATURN.
Perfumes :— Saifron, with the wood of Atoes, the Elder and the Pine. Add
to it a grain of Musk, and consecrate the whole, pulverized and mixed together in
a paste.THE SECRET GRIMOIRE
CHABACTER OF PRALEG LORD OF MARS.
Perfumes
The head of a frog, the Bovine Blood, a grain of White Poppy, Fiowers of
Camomile, and Camphor, pulverized into a paste by the mixing of the blood of a
Virgin Kid.THE SECRET GRIMOIRE
CHARACTER of PHUL LORD OF THE Moon.
Perfumes :— Leaves of the Mandrake, Sal Ammonia, Roots of Gentian,
Valerian herbs finely cut, a little Sulphur, made into a paste with the blood of a
black Cat.THE SECRET GRIMOIRE
CHARACTER OF J3ETHOR LORD OF JUPITER.
Perfumes
Sandalwood of the East, leaves of Agrimony, Choves, powder of Henbane. Beat
all into a powder. Make thereof a paste with Foxes’ blood and the brains of a
Magpie.THE SECRET GRIMOIRE
CHARACTER OF OPHIEL LORD OF MERCURY.
Perfumes
The seed of an Ash Tree, the wood of the Aloe, leaves of the Scullcap Herb,
Mandrake roots, and the end of a Quili, made into small balls (pihis).THE SECRET GRIMOIRE
CRARACTER OF HAGITH LORD OF VENUS.
Perfumes
Musk, Juniper berries, wood of Áloes, dried Red Roses, dried leaves of Elder,
pulvenzed, and made into a paste with the blood of a Pigeon.THE SECRET GRIMOIRE
CHARACTER OF OCH LORD OF THE SUN.
Perfumes
Grains of Bhack Pepper, grains of Hogsbane, powder of Sulphur, made into a
paste with the blood of a Bat, and the brains of a black Cat.
PART THE SECOND
CONTAINING INVOCATIONS, CONJURATIONS, ARO EXORCISMS OF
TREE
BAND OF SPIRITSTHE SECRET GRIMOIRE
FORM OF CONJURING AND EXORCISING SPIRITS TO ~
Oration lo be said when putting on the Vestures :.— Amacor, Amacor, Amides,
Theodomai, Aintor, by the merits of Thy Angels, O Lord, I with I put on the
garments of Righteousness, that this which I desire I may bring to perfection
through the most holy Adonay, Whose kingdom endureth for ever and ever.
Amen.
This on the ather side
The LamenTHE SECRET GRIMOIRE
Prayer
•
Holy, Holy Lord God, from Whom all holy desires do pro ceed, I beg Thou
wilt be merciful unto me at this time, granting I may become a True Magician and
contemplate of Thy wondrous works at alt times, in the Name of the Father and of
the Son. Therefore in al! my doings and at all times I will call upon Thy Most
Holy Name, O Lord, for Thy help and assistance.
I beseech Thee, O Lord, that Thou wilt purge me and wash me iii the blood of our
Saviour, from al! my sins and frailties, and that Thou wilt henceforward
vouchsafe to keep and defend me from pride, lusts, cursing, blasphemy,
unfaithfulness, and al! other deadly sins and enormous offences, profaneness and
spiritual wickedness ; but that I may lead a godhy, saber, faithfuh, constant and
pure hife, waiking uprightly in Thy sight, through the merits of Jesus Christ, Thy
Son, our Lord and Savìour.
Omnipotent and Eternal Lord God Who sittest in Heaven and dost from thence
behoid alt the dwehlers upon earth, most mercifully I beseech Thee to hear andTHE SECRET GRIMOIRE
answer the petition of Thine unworthy servant, which I shali make unto Thee at
this time, through Jesus Christ our Lord, Who hiveth and reigneth with Thee in
the unity of Thy Holy Spirit, ever One God, worhd without end.
Sead down, O Lord, the Spirit of Thy Grace upon me. O God, put fear far from
me, and give me an abundance in Thy faith, whereby all things are made
possib!e unto man; put evexy wicked phantom far from my mind, and grant me
true zeal, fervour, and intentive spirit of zeal, and prayer, that I may offer up a
welh-pleasing sacrifice unto Thee. Let me use Thy ministering spirits and Angels,
O Lord, as thereby I may attain true wisdom and knowledge.
Our Father, etc.
Credo, etc.
Ave Maria, etc.
Glory be to the Father, Son, and Holy Ghost; as it was in the beginning, is now,
and ever shalll be, world without end. Amen.
Holy, Holy, Holy, Lord God of Sabaoth, which will come to judge the quick and
the dead; Thou art Alpha and Omega, the first and the iast, King of Kings, and
Lord of Lords, Ioth, Abiel, Anathiel, Aniasim, Alganabro, El, Sedomel, Gayes,
Hehi, Messias, Tolosm, Elias, Eschiros, Athanatos; by these Thy Holy Names,
and al! others, I do call upon Thee and beseech Thee, O Lord, by Thy Nativity
and baptism, by Thy Cross and Passion, by Thine ascension, and by the coming
of Thy Holy Ghost, by the bitterness of Thy Soul when it departed from Thy
body; by Thine Angels, Archangels, prophets, patriarchs, and by al! Thy Saints,
and by alt the Sacraments which are made in Thine honour, I do worship and
beseech Thee, I bless and desire Thee, to accept these prayers and conjurations.
I implore Thee, O Holy Adonay, Amay, Horta, Vegadoro, Ysion, Ysesy, and by
al! Thy Holy Names, and by al! Thine Angels, Archangels, and Powers,
Dominations, and Virtues, and by Thy Name wìth which King Solomon did bind
up the devils and shut them np, Ethrack, Evanher, Agla, Goth, Joth, Othie,
Venock, Nabrat, and by al! Thy Holy Names which are written in this book, and
by the virtue of them all, that Thou enable me to congregate all Thy spirits, that
they may give me true answers to all my demands.THE SECRET GRIMOIRE
O Great and Eternal Virtue of the Highest, which Thou disposest their being
come to judgment, Viachem, Stimilomaton, Esphares, Tetragrammaton, Oboram,
Cryon, Elijtion, Onela, Brassim, Aoym, Messias, Soter, Emanuel, Sabaoth,
Adonay, I worship Thee. I implore Thee with all the strength of my mmd that by
Thee my present prayers, consecrations, and conjurations may be ha!!owed. In
the Name of the most merciful God of Heaven and of Earth, of the Seas and of
the Infernais, by Thine Omni potent help may I perform this Work.
Helie, Helion, Esseju, Deus Eternis, Eloy, Clemens Deus, Sanctus Sabaoth, Deus
Exercillum, Adonay, Deus Mirabilis, Jao, Verax, Ampheneton, Saday,
Dominator, On, Fortissimus Deus, invest with Thy blessed help this Work begun
of Thee, that it may be consummated by Thy mighty power. Amen.
Amoruli, Tametia, Latisten, Rabur, Tanetia, Latisten, Escha, Aloelin, Alpha et
Omega, Leytse, Oraston, Adonay. Amen.
Names and Offices of the Spirits. Messengers. and Intelligences of the
Seven Planets
Spirits of the Sun.
Gabriel.
Vianathraba.
Corat.
Messengers of the Sun.
Burchat.
Suceratos.
Capabile.
Intelligences of the Sun.
HaludieL
Machasiel.
Chassiel.
Spirits of the Moon.
Gabriel.
Gabraei.
Madios.THE SECRET GRIMOIRE
Messengers of the Moon.
Anael.
Pabael.
Ustael.
Intefligences the Moori.
of
Uriel.
Naromiel.
Abuori.
Spirits of Saturn.
Samael.
Bachiel.
Astel.
Messengers of Saturn.
Sachieh.
Zoniel.
Hubaril.
Intefligences of Saturu.
Mael.
Orael.
Valnum.
Spirits of Jupiter.
Setchiel.
Chedusitanieh.
Corael
Messengers of Jupiter.
Tunel. (See Secret Grimoire of Turiel).
Conieh.
Babiel.
Intelligences of Ju/iter.
Kadiel.
Maltiel.
Huphatrieb.THE SECRET GRIMOIRE
Estael.
Spirits of Venus.
Thamael.
Tenariel.
Arragon.
Messengers of Venus.
Coiznas.
Peajel
Penael.
Intelligences of Venus.
Penat.
Thiel.
Rael
Teriapel.
Spirits of Mercury.
Mathlai.
Tarmiel.
Baraborat.
Messengers of Mercury.
Raphael.
Ramel.
Doremiel.
Intelligences of Mercury.
Aiediat.
Modiat.
Sugmonos.
Sal!ales.THE SECRET GRIMOIRE
Presiding Spirits of Jupiter.
Sachiel.
Castiel.
Asasiel.
Presiding Spirits of Venus.
Anael.
Rachiel.
Sachiel.
Presiding Spirits of Mars.
Samael.
Satael.
Amabiel.
Presiding Spirits of Mercury.
Raphael.
Uriel.
Seraphiel.
Angeli Glorioso supradicti estote coadjutores et auxiliatores in omnibus negotijs
et interrogationibus in omnibus celensq (?)
causis per Eum qui venturus est judiciase vivos et mortuos.
Omnipotent and Eternal God Who hast ordained the whole creation for Thy
praise and glory and for the salvation of man, I earnestly beseech Thee that Thou
wouldst send one of Thy spirits of the Orden of Jupiter, one of the messengers of
Sachiel whom Thou hast appointed presiding spirit of Thy firmament at this time,
most faithfully, willingly to show unto me those things which I shall demand or
require of him, and truly execute my desires. Nevertheless, O most Holy God,
Thy will and not mine be done, through Jesus Christ our Lord. Amen.THE SECRET GRIMOIRE
Invocation : I call upon thee, Sachiel, Castiel, and Asasie!, in the Name of the
I
Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost, Blessed Trinity, Inseparable Unity,
I invoke and entreat thee, Sachiel, Castiel, and Asasiel, in this hour to attend to
the words and conjurations which I shall use by the Holy Names of God, El,
Elohim, Elohe, Eeoba, Sabaoth, Elion, Eschiros, Adonay, Jay, Tetragrammaton,
Saday; I conjure and excite you by the Holy Names of God, Hagios, Otheos,
Ischyros, Athanatos, Paracletos, Agla, On, Alpha and Omega, Ausias, Tolimi,
Elias, Irnos, Aniay, Horta, Vegadora, Antir, Sibranat, Amatha, Baldachia,
Anuoram, Anexpheton, Via,Vita, Manus, Fons, Origo,Filius
and by all the other Holy, Glorious, Great, and Unspeakable, Mysterious, Mighty,
Powerful, and Incomprehensible Names of God, that you attend unto the words
which I shall utter, and send unto me Tarje!, Coniel, on Babiel, messengers of
your sphere, to tel! unto me such things as I shall demand of him, in the Name of
the Father, Son, and Holy Ghost.
I entreat thee, Setchiel, Chedustaniel, and Corael, by the whole host of Heaven,
Seraphims, Cherubims, Thrones, Dominations, Virtues, Powers, Principalities,
Archangels and Angels, by the great and giorious Spirits Orphaniel, Tetra, Pagiel,
Salmia, Pastor, Salun, Azimor, and by your Star which is Jupiter, and by all the
constellations of Heaven, and by whatsoever you obey, and hy your Character
which you have given and proposed and confirmed, that you attend unto me
according to the prayers and petitions which I have made unto Almighty God, and
that you forthwith send unto me one of your messengers who may willingly and
truly and faithfully fulfil all my desires, wishes and commands, and that youTHE SECRET GRIMOIRE
command him to appear unto me in form of a beautiful angel clothed in white
vestures, gently, courteously, kindly, and affably entering into communication
with me, and that he neither bring terror nor fear unto me, or obstinately deny my
requests, neither permitting any evil spirits to appear or approach in any way to
hurt, terrify, or affright me, nor deceiving me in any wise; through the virtue of
our Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ, in Whose Name I attend, waiting for and
expecting your appearance. Fiat, Fiat, Fiat. Amen.
Interrogations : “Comest thou in peace, in the Name of the Father, and of the
—
Son, and of thc Holy Ghost “Yes”.
“
“Thou art welcome, noble Spirit. What is thy name?
“Turiel
“.
“I have called thee here, Turiel, in the Name of Jesus of Nazareth, at Whose
Name every knee doth bow, both of things in Heaven, Earth, and Heil, and every
tongue shall confess there is no Name like unto the Name of Jesus, Who hath
given power unto man to bind and to loose all things in His Name, yea, even unto
them that trust in His salvation. Art thou the messeager of Setchiel
“yes”
“Wilt thou confirm thyself unto me at this time, and from henceforward reveal all
things unto me that I shall desire to know and teach me how to increase my
wisdom and knowledge, and show unto me the secrets of the Magick Art, and of
the liberal sciences, that I may set forth the praise and glory of Almighty God
“Yes”.
“Then, I pray thee, give and confirm thy Character unto me, whereby I may call
thee at al! times, and also swear unto me this Oath, and I will righteously keep my
vow and covenant unto Almighty God, and will courteously receive thee at all
times when thou dost appear to me
“Forasmuch as thou camest in peace and quietness and hast answered me and
unto my petitions, I give humble and hearty thanks unto Almighty God, in whose
Name I called thee and thou camest. And now thou mayest depart in peace unto
thy Orders, and retum unto me again at what time soever I shall call thee byTHE SECRET GRIMOIRE
Licence to Depart : —thine own Oath, or by thy name, or by thine Order, or by
thine
Office which is granted from the Creator. And the Grace of God be with thee and
me and upon the whoie Israel of God. Amen. Glory be to the Father, and to the
Son, and to the Holy Ghost, as it was in the beginning, is now, and ever shall be,
world without end. Fiat. Fiat. Fiat. Amen “.
Form of a Bond of Spirits given by Turiel, Messenger of the Spirits of Jupiter:
Gloria Deo in Excelsis.
I, Turiel, Messenger of the Spirits of Jupiter, appointed there unto by the Creator
of all things visible and invisible, do swear and promise, and plighting faith and
troth unto thee in the presence, by, and before the Great Lord of Heaven
and the whole company of Heaven, by all the Holy Names of God, do swear and
bind myself unto thee, by all the contents of God’s Sacred Writ, by the
Incarnation, death and passion, resurrection, and glorious Ascension of Jesus
Christ, by all the Holy Sacraments, by the Mercy of God, by the Glory and Eyes
of Heaven, by the forgiveness of sin, and hope of eternal salvation, by the Great
Day of Doom, by all the Angels and Archangels, Seraphim, Cherubim,
Dominations, Thrones, Principalities, Powers, and Virtues, Patriarchs, Prophets,
Saints, Martyrs, Innocents, and all others of the blessed and glorious Company of
Heaven, and by al! the sacred powers and virtues above rehearsed, and by
whatever is holy and binding, thus do I swear now, and promise unto thee that I
will hasten unto thee, and appear clearly unto thee at all times and places, and inTHE SECRET GRIMOIRE
all hours, days, and minutes, from this time forward until thy life’s end,
wbensoever thou shalt call me by my name, or by my Office, and will come unto
thee in what form thou shalt desire, whether it be visibly or invisibly; I will
answer a!! thy desires. And in testimony whereof, and before all the Powers of
Heaven, I have hereunto set, subscribed, and confirmed my Character unto thee.
So help me God. Fiat. Amen.
The Character of Turiel.
FINISTHE MAGIC OF
ARMADEL
Electronic Version Prologue
This grimoire was first translated by Mr. MacGregor Mathers into English.
Now for the first time in English I Frater Alastor , rendering into the html format.
When Mathers made his translation he notice that the title page was the last page
of the grimoire, so he moved to the front but keep the rest of the chapters in the
same order. He also notice that this grimoire began speaking about the magick
circle like if it where something that the reader should already know.
Now it is my believe that the whole grimoire was written backward, this is to say
that you should read the last page first (the title page) then the last chapter and so
on. If you read it this way you will see that make a lot of sense. In Mathers
version the first chapter is a reference to the magick circle and the License to
depart, it make no sense to begin a grimoire that way since the license to depart is
the last think that a magician read. Also if you fallow the Latin titles in Mathers
version the text begin with the Sanhedrin, Jesus and go on to the creation of
Adam and the demons and the angels etc. This order is completely the opposite
of that one on the bible this is god first, then the angels, the demons, Adam, Jesus,
the Crucifixion and the Sanhedrin. So neither to say I had inverted the orders of
the chapters in Mathers version under the believing that this is the way that wasTHE MAGIC OF
intended to be read.
Frater Alastor.
LIBER ARMADEL
Seu totius Cabalae perfectissima brevissima et infallibilis Scientia tam
speculativa quam practiqua
Dominum Deum timebus et illi seli serbies per nomen
illius tremendae at adorabilis Majestatis omnibusTHE MAGIC OF
diebus vitae tuae.
operaribus
TRANSLATTON OF THE FOREGOING
The Fear of the Lord is the Beginning of Wisdom. In the Name of the God of
Israel, One and Triune, Abraham believed, and it was counted unto him for
righteousness. Amen.
Nisi Dominus Operitus nobiscum in vanum laborant qui operantur.
Unless the Lord work with us, in vain do they strive who labour.
De Prof undis Clamavi ad Te Domine, Domine Exaudi Orationem meam.
Out of the Depths Have I cried unto Thee O Lord, O Lord hear my prayer.THE MAGIC OF
Fiant aunes tuae intendentes un vocem Deprecationis mea.
Let Thine ears be inchined unto the voice of my supplication.
THE CHARACTERS OF MICHAEL
The Characters of Michael
(Taken from the German Original)
Therefore Hear O Man The Lord, the Lord Our God, is one Lord. Thou shalt loveTHE MAGIC OF
the Lord thy God with thine whole heart, with thy whole Soul, and with thy
whole strength, and thy neighbour as thyself. And these words which I teach unto
thee shall be in thine heart, thou shalt relate them unto thy children and thou shalt
meditate upon them, when thou sittest in thine house, when thou walkest by the
wayside, when thou sleepest, and when thou arisest; and thou shalt bind them like
unto a staff for thine hand, and thou shalt place them between thine eyes and thou
shalt write them upon the threshold and portals of thy dwelling place. AMEN.
Thou shalt not tempt the Lord thy God, in any soever of thy works; but keeping
His precepts and testimony, and ceremonies, most pure, thou shalt do that which
is pleasing and good in the sight of the Lord with zeal and charity, not out of
curiosity or ostentation.
If thus thou shalt have heard the voice of the Lord thy God and shalt have walked
in his ways, that thou mayest do and keep His commandments, the Lord thy God
shall make these more excellent than all the Nations which be spread abroad upon
the Earth; and by reason of that blessing shall they come unto thee and learn of
thee, Blessed shalt thou be in the City, and blessed shalt thou be in the field, and
blessed shall be the fruit of thy body. AMEN.
But the God of these, Who is also our God, is in Heaven, and in Earth, and in the
Abysses, and He doeth whatsoever He will. They who fear the Lord have put
their trust in the Lord, He is their helper and defender. Would that my life were
directed to the safeguard of thy justification. Also I have sought thee out, because
thou hast caused me to have life hereby. Let it go forth unto my works. Direct
thou them according to Thy saying, and let not injustice have dominion over me
When, therefore, thou shalt be worthy to understand in what manner thy vow and
thy natal day are to be observed with circumspection and purity:
Take note of this:
Are there not twelve Months in the Year?THE MAGIC OF
Is there not one hour in each single month?
Does not this hour pass by?
And thus let it then pass by with chastity, fasting, ardent prayer and desire,
desiring also your Vow by the Divine inspiration and therefore fit to be carried
out.
This following is a fitting prayer.
ORATIO
Initium Sapientiae Timor Domini in Nomine Dei Israel, LIni et Trino, Credidit
Abraham et ei reputatumfuit in justitiam. AMEN.
THE PREPARATION OF THE SOUL (II)
Santi Andrea et Thoma circumvallate me.
O Saint Andrew and (Saint) Thomas, be a defence about me.THE MAGIC OF
Sancte Michael auxiliate omnibus operationibus meis quoniam quis sicut
Dominum Virtutum et nullus certe ni ni solus deus meus magnus et terribile super
omnes qui in exercitu ejus sunt ideo enim voto voverint domino Deo meo Jesu me
possidents et circumvallante gratia sua et dominus Deus Jesus imposita mihi
Lege sua sit mihi semper a cuntis diebus et momentis vitae meae un patrem et
deum meum— et si vere Emmanuel amabilis.
O Saint Michael bring thine aid unto all mine Operations, for who is like unto the
Lord of Virtues; and assuredly there is none else but my Lord God, the only Great
and terrible over all who be in His Army, for hereunto by vow are they vowed
unto my Lord God Jesus, Who possesseth and defendeth me by His Grace. Also
may the Lord God Jesus having imposed upon me His Law, be ever mine in every
Day and moment of my life as my Father and God, and thus truly my beloved
Emmanuel.
Sancte Petre ad glorium et utilitatem proximi ure in me omnes iniquitates meas.
O Saint Peter, unto the (Divine) Glory and the good of my neighbour, bum up in
me all mine iniquities.
San te Paule obviam este deprecationis meae.
O Saint Paul, be thou propitious unto my prayer.
Conf itebor Jesu tibi Christi rex Aeternaegloriae verbum caro factum est, exTHE MAGIC OF
Maria de Spiritu Sancte te humillime deprecor per vulnere tua sanctissima quae
sunt fons regenerationis mos trae in fide et charitate per delectissimam Marium
Matrem tuam semper immaculatam et omnes sanctes tuos ne impediar opere ad
mortem justifican in fide et charitate quoniam fides sine operibus mortua, non
nobis domine non nobis sed nomini tuo, nequando dicant gentes ubi est.
I will confess myself unto Thee, O Jesus Christ, King of Eternal Glory, the Word
is made flesh from Mary by the Holy Spirit; I pray Thee most humbly by Thy
most holy wounds which are the Foundation of our Regeneration in Faith and
Charity; by Thy Most delightful Mother Mary, ever Immaculate; and by all Thy
Saints let me not be hindered in my work, unto death be justified in Faith and in
Charity, since Faith without Works is dead. Not unto us, O Lord, not unto us, but
unto thy Name; hest the heathen may say: Where is He
Let us become as little children at birth, for unless we be born again we shall not
see the wonders of God, nor yet in any way progress in the Art.
Good is fasting with prayer, and almsgiving, and vow.
Before the Oration, prepare the Soul
THE PREPARATION OF THE SOUL (1)THE MAGIC OF
Before invoking the Spirits it is necessary to make a (Magical) Circle, and place
thyself in the midst thereof after having sprinkled the same with Holy Water
saying:
‘In Nomine Patris + et Fuji + et Spiritus Sancti.’1
‘In the Name of the Father, and of the Son and of the Holy Ghost.’
‘Res pice in me per Sanctissimos Angelos Tuos in Nomine Jeus de Maria Virgine
semper immaculata Nati, et Ventas Tua manet in aeternum—Amen.
‘Examine me thoroughly by Thy most Holy Angels, in the Name of Jesus, born of
Mary, the ever Immaculate Virgin; and may Thy Truth endure for ever— Amen.’
The Magick CircleTHE MAGIC OF
(Taken from the German Original)
Before the Oration prepare thy Soul, and be not thou like unto a man who
tempteth a God.
ORATION SEMPER PRECEDENS ACTUM
(Dirigatur quaese et humillime.
Deprecor Domine Deus Meus Omnipotens in conspectu Tuo Operatio mea et
comittentier mihi et operatione mea sanctissimi (here follow a collection of
scratches evidently intended to represent Hebrew Letters which I imagine are
intended to stand for the words: ‘IHVH Elohim, Ab, Ben Ve-Ruach Haqodesh.’
‘Tetragrammaton Elohim, Father, Son and Holy Spirit.’)
Ad Majorem Nomini Tui gloriam, edificationem et utilitatem proximi mei. Amen.
Translation of the Foregoing.
THE ORATION ALWAYS TO BE MADE
BEFORE OPERATIONTHE MAGIC OF
(also I warn you that it is to be performed with the greatest humility).
In Thy Sight O Lord mine Omnipotent God, do I pray for mine Operation, and
may these most Holy (Names) be in charge over me and my Operation... unto the
Greater Glory of Thy Name, and the edification and profit of my neighbour.
Amen.
COR ERGO ET SCIETUR UNUM SUNT
PUTREUS M ALE STUM
THE VISION OF DUST
Wheref ore let it be granted that dry bones having been reduced in to a most fine
powder, that this also may be refined and compounded together like unto the T h i
n i a n a of Moses the Blood. Neither ever hereafter shouldest thou despise this
holiest Mystery; for thee the Spirit of Life is herein like as in the Dust of a Man.
Since all these (matters) have been placed before thy true heart, which also the
Lord God hath chosen for the legitimate Tabernacle, may He further bless all thy
works in thy time
By His Angel Raphael He appeareth unto the blessed Tobias and in his journey
he put to flight all Malice of heart and every kind of Demon which obsesses, and
(caused) Simplicity of heart, Purity and Faith in Prayer to have entire dominionTHE MAGIC OF
with him.
Is there not sought in the Imagination those things which one hath not known, and
is there not pleasure in the excitation thereof? Hath not Memory been willing to
aid that which the Imagination hath clothed with form, so that one may see of
what nature such things may be and whether any further development of them
may be (advisable)? Hath not the Intellect having applied them unto Itself, known
how to treat in thee the things cast forth by the Memory, and this to what degree
and extent according unto their faculties and powers? Do not Memory,
imagination, and Intellect operate (simultaneously) together? For at once and in
unity these (three) which be united together do then become Intellectual Action.
Is not the Heart a recurved Vase of Blood? If among all these so many be found
similar that they may be perfected hereunto, it will be the same concerning His
people.3
Study this weH O Man, ardent for Wisdom, in the following out of this Path
desiring all things, seeking all things, and understanding all things, seeing that in
thyself are all things.
Assimilated; Contained: Willed. Was it not on the Fifth Day5 that Man was made
a Living Soul?
Was there not a Soul6 which came forth (into manifestation) on the Third Day?
Did it not also give forth and withdraw (the faculty of) Hope, and before that it
withdrew, did it not rejoice in the Quinary Number; going forth and returning in
that same Number; for it rejoiced in the Nature of the Creatures which do exist in
the Number of the Quinary.
First God, (then) Spirit and Matter. Most powerfully do these operate the
separation of Matter violently transformed by Life. How can such (Life) do aught
but delight in the Number of the Five, seeing that therein is hidden every Mystery
of a (Past), Present and Future Age, since in such (Eternal) Epoch is the Name of
the Lord God.THE MAGIC OF
Also in the Prophecy of Ezekiel, as it was taught unto him, the Lord God said:
‘Let the Spirit come from the Four Winds, and brood over these that they may
revive in the Name PELECH, now JESUS.’ The Lord God PELEG, now JESUS.
The Spirit having entered into them, also they spake. It is not also related by
inspiration that the Lord said unto Moses: ‘Take unto thee Aromatics; Stacte,
Galbanum of good odour, and thus Luci, of equal weight: hereof shalt thou make
a perfume composed according to the Art of the Apothecary, mixed with care;
pure and sanctified, and most fitting to be offered unto me. And when thou shalt
have beaten it into most fine powder, then shalt thou place it before the
Tabernacle of the Testimony in the which place 1 will appear unto thee, Holy of
Holies shall it be. Thou shalt compose nothing similar for thine owrt use, seeing
that it is Holy unto the Lord.’ Man who was called Adam, also called by their
(true) Names all the Animals, as well the Birds of Heaven as the Beasts of Earth,
But there was not found an aid for Adam who was like unto him.°
Is it not written and reported by tradition’ that the Lord God led forth Ezekiel in
His Spirit, and left him in the midst of a field which was full of dry bones, and led
him round about these bones in that region, and prophesied over those bones. And
in the Name of the Lord he said unto them: ‘O Dry Bones, hear ye the Word of
the Lord Thus said the Lord unto you: “So therefore will I send forth My Spirit
unto you, and ye shall live, and ye shall know that I am the Lord.” Also thus was
it done at the same time that Ezekiel did prophesy over those dry bones.’
Since in that prophesying there was a sound made, and behold there was a great
movement, and the bones approached and joined each unto the other together, and
the nerves and flesh formed upon them, and the skin was spread aboye, though as
yet they had not the Spirit of Life. Unto that Spirit, then did Ezekiel prophesy his
Will, in all humilty, sobriety, mercy and patience. And though, whosoever thou
mayest be, who in thy life and action possesses thy Soul in peace, when therefore
thou shalt know the Mysterium,12 be thou well ware not to reveal it. When the
Spirit willeth seek to enter into the Knowledge of the Lord, and there shall rise an
intellectual fountain of Understanding and Wisdom. The (celestial) LIGFIT fleeth
the (Earthly) Light, and operateth in Secret until thine Heart is tormented withTHE MAGIC OF
understanding and with the desire of Understanding, since it is that which seeketh
and which is hidden from Man. Is it not written and reported by tradition, and
hast thou not read, that the Lord God formed Man of the Mud13 of the Earth, and
that Man became a Living Soul, and that when He had formed Man He placed
him in the Paradise of Pleasure to work it and to keep it.
And seeing that the Lord God, having formed from the ground all the animals of
the Earth and all the winged things of heaven, did bring all these living creatures
before Adam himself, then did his Name (that is) the Spirit (or Breath) go forth
(upon them); and the Dust14 being arrested, there did it remain, and the Rose15
was restored. And so also is the Man who understandeth the Mysteries of the
Book, and of the Similitude of the Rose, and the Mystery of the Dust; preserving
the same in the inmost of his heart like a Magically guarded Treasure: and as a
Gift of the Highest, most sacred and most unutterable nature. But shouldest thou
make an abuse hereof, then shall it be unto thee as a most heavy and scandalous
thing and shall bring about the utter ruin of all thy worldly possessions, of thy
body, of thine intellect, and of thy Soul. Further also take heed that thou reveal it
not to any in writing, nor yet even the least part of the Mysteries of this Book.
Wherefore mayest thou be contented herein, with all charity and zeal thereof, and
thou shalt have done sufficient; for God knoweth who desireth truly for His
Grace, His Light and the Understanding of His Empire; seeing that in His Namé
he hath known Him.
When thou shalt have comprehended the Misterium Stile, which is the Most Holy
Gift of God, this is that which the Lord God PELECH now JESUS revealeth or
permitteth to be revealed unto those who do seek His Will.
Is it not reported by tradition and written ‘In the Beginning the Elohim created’
(Bereshith Bara Elohim). . . Man on the Sixth Day; whom the Lord God took and
placed in the Paradise of Pleasure, wherem was the Fountain divided into FourTHE MAGIC OF
Heads. There is that Most Holy Mystery, let him who hath ears to hear, hear and
live O Lord God, may he be Anathema (accursed) whosoever he be, who shall
have despised this most precious Mystery. Amen
Hear, O my Soul, turn unto the Lord thy God; for where there hath been Pride,
there shall be also Abasement; but where there is humility (there is) also Wisdom.
So, therefore, abide fast m the Lord God, saying with thine whole heart, ‘Truly 1
have sinned in all my ways, but I beseech Thee O Lord to take away the Iniquity
of Thy Servant, seeing that nevertheless 1 have put my trust in Thee’
O Lord God, thou art become my oppressor, because of the multitude of my sins,
seeing that I have greatly sinned, and that mine Iniquities be multiplied like unto
the Sands of the Sea, and 1am not worthy to lift up mine eyes unto the Height of
Heaven.
THE VISION OF ANOINTING
Hath it not been written in the Scriptures, — ‘Take unto thee sweet spices, five
hundred shekels of myrrh the finest and most choice, likewise thou shalt reckon
two hundred and fifty shekels of Calamus,’ Are these not in the Blood, Vital and
Animal Spirits? Is there not Blood in the whole Body? And there is (a certain
proportion) of fat joined thereunto preserving the Spirits thereof. In the Body of
the Fish preserved by Tobias were there not these Spirits (derived from) the
purest faculties of all true Elementary Forces? Know thou then what most holy
thing existeth as regardeth (these Elementary Forces) preserved in Nature
Therefore the Lord Pelech, now Jesus, by His Omnipotent Grace mercifully
operating in Nature, protecting the Heart of the Operator in Simplicity, in Faith,
in Hope and going forth in Charity, rejoicing also in Itself, directeth such Spirits
according to their most sacred faculties to cooperate with such Operation of a
Simple Heart.
file:///C|/WINDOWS/DESKTOP/GLENNS~1/MAGICAL2/GRIMOI~1/grimoire%20of%20armadel.htm (15 of 66) [10/08/03 17:43:32]THE MAGIC OF
Is it not manifested in the Book of Tobias, who himself was of a Simple Heart,
that the Lord God directed the Spirits of the Liver of the Fish according to their
most secret faculties, in His Adorable Name, by His Angel Raphael, to co-operate
with Tobias in the casting away of the Albumen (from the eyes of his) father?
By a Number (namely) through the Temary, is the Mercy of God the Highest
Lord, Jah, turned, therefore revealing all things. David took unto himself five
most clear stones from the Brook and five cakes of Shewbread, the which Bread
the Laity might not have, but only the Elect. Is not the Head the seat of
Imagination, of Memory and of Intellect?
THE RATIONAL TABLE:
or the QABALISTICAL LIGHT;
PENETRATING WHATSOEVER THINGS BE
MOST HIDDEN AMONG THE CELESTIALS,
THE TERRESTRIALS AND THE INFERNALS
THE FIRST CHARACTERS
file:///C|/WINDOWS/DESKTOP/GLENNS~1/MAGICAL2/GRIMOI~1/grimoire%20of%20armadel.htm (16 of 66) [10/08/03 17:43:32]THE MAGIC OF
The First Characters which should be made upon virgin parchment, on Sunday in
the Hour of the sun (see Figure 46), The first letter of your name should be
written in the semi-circle ‘A’, and that of your surname in the semi-circle ‘B’.
You should wear this upon your left side (near the heart) before you proceed to
invoke the Spirits, in order to make them obey you, and to gain from them that
which you shall desire.
ISRAEL hath gone forth from the Beginning, from the Days of Etemity. O my
Soul, possess thyself in searching out and foliowing out in thyself the Will of thy
Lord PELECH Who is Jesus; for that Peace shall be thine, when M e m o r ot h
the Assyrian and M e t r u m shall come to turn thee from the Eternal Law, and
thus disturb thee in all thy ways.
Be unwilling to fast,1 O my Soul; let it be at the hour of Day that thy cry may be
heard on high. Is it also such a fást which the Lord hath chosen to afflict thee by
day, through the depth and multitude of my iniquities, whereby 1 have excited thy
wrath, and have done evil before thee unintentionally, also 1 have kept thy
commands.2
The Lord God presseth me hard because of my many sins; nevertheless bow
down (unto Him) O my Soul; that thou mayest rather fall into the hands of the
Lord God, seeing that many are His Mercies, than into the hands of Man. Turn
then, O my Soul and humble thyself before the Lord thy God. The Lord thy God
file:///C|/WINDOWS/DESKTOP/GLENNS~1/MAGICAL2/GRIMOI~1/grimoire%20of%20armadel.htm (17 of 66) [10/08/03 17:43:32]THE MAGIC OF
hath created Israel, and truly there is a Providence which acteth in the sight of
God; and him who hath cried unto Him, also He observeth intently, and listeneth
unto his prayer.
Cry unto the Lord, with great insistence, and humiliate thyself O Soul, also in
Chastity, in fasting, in mercy, in power, seeking out with thine whole heart in thy
prayers the Will of the Lord God, and all things shall be added unto thee. From
thine inmost heart and in tears shalt thou say unto the Lord thy God, ‘1 have
sinned, nevertheless O Lord return unto me whom Thou hast humiiated.’ Be in
thine whole heart ever seeking Jesus, in chastity and in sobriety, in mercy and
patience, and thus shalt thou possess the Soul in faith, hope, and charity; and thus
shalt thou pray confidently. And whatsoever thou shalt seek in Bereshith, shallbe
given back unto thee in Mercavah.
CONCERNING THE PATHS OF WISDOM
These be the Characters of the Spirits of Force and Counsel (see Figure 43).
file:///C|/WINDOWS/DESKTOP/GLENNS~1/MAGICAL2/GRIMOI~1/grimoire%20of%20armadel.htm (18 of 66) [10/08/03 17:43:32]THE MAGIC OF
Characters of the Spirit of Force and Counsel
This is the Sigil of Joy, and of the Spirit which goeth forth and retireth. The
Characters of the Spirits of Joy (see Figure 44).
Characters of the Spirits of Joy
Thou shalt have fasted with the Lord God Pelech, now (called) Jesus, for Seven
Days, the which shall be passed in humility and sobriety, in mercy and patience,
in peace and equilibrium; (that is to say) in the beginning of all the Sigils of Love
file:///C|/WINDOWS/DESKTOP/GLENNS~1/MAGICAL2/GRIMOI~1/grimoire%20of%20armadel.htm (19 of 66) [10/08/03 17:43:32]THE MAGIC OF
and Charity, and from which they do proceed.
The Characters of the Angels of Love and Charity (see Figure 45).
Characters of the Angels of Love and Charity
Is it not written and reported by tradition that ‘there were Six Men2 who carne
from the way of the Upper Gate which looketh toward the North, each holding in
his hand a weapon of death. Also in the midst of them was one Man clothed with
a robe of fine linen, and he had instruments for writing hung at his side. And
when they had entered, they stood beside the Altar of Brass, And the Glory of the
Lord of Israel withdrew from the cherub which was etc. . .‘ Also in the Books of
Moses (it is written)3 that with 250 shekels of each of various ingredients and
with 500 shekels of Myrrh, etc., according to the weight of the Sanctuary, and
with a certain measure of Olive Oil, thou shalt make a certain Holy Anointing Oil
composed according to the Art of the Apothecary; and that herewith thou shalt
anoint the Tabernacle of Testimony and the Ark of the Covenant, the Table with
its Vessels, the Candlesticks, the Altar of Incense and that of Burnt Offering, and
all things pertaining unto the Cult.
file:///C|/WINDOWS/DESKTOP/GLENNS~1/MAGICAL2/GRIMOI~1/grimoire%20of%20armadel.htm (20 of 66) [10/08/03 17:43:32]THE MAGIC OF
CONCERNING GOD THE UNIVERSALLY
ONE
These be the Characters of the Spirits who do teach unto you all kinds of Sciences
(see Figure 42). They be under the domination of CASSIEL, and are to be
invoked on a Saturday at eleven o’clock at night,
In this Sigil is manifested the most glorious Science of God.
In this are taught the Paths of Wisdom1 and their profoundest Mysteries; how we
can know such paths; and how we may become worthy to wait therein. There be
also shown the Mysteries of our hearts through this Number of Thirty-two. Its
significations teach the Mysteries of the Regeneration of our Heart; whether from
the beginning it was constituted to operate hereby and herewith, and by the Word
of God; whether it was distinct in the Mind of God; and what be its place, Science
and dubitation, its hope, faith and ultimate desire.
If you shalt desire to know thoroughly these Paths of Perfect and Profound
Wisdom together with their Mysteries; remember the combinations of writings in
the Sigil (He) which is in the centre of the figure of the Heart.
file:///C|/WINDOWS/DESKTOP/GLENNS~1/MAGICAL2/GRIMOI~1/grimoire%20of%20armadel.htm (21 of 66) [10/08/03 17:43:33]THE MAGIC OF
Whosoever thou mayest be, despise not this wonderful Science and Geometrical
Searching Out, and the points of E o n,3 and the Mystical Numbers of the Letters.
Also the Lord said unto God:4 ‘Go forth through the midst of the City, through
the midst of Jerusalem, and sign a Symbol upon the foreheads of the men who
groan and grieve over all the abominations which be in the midst thereof. ‘Also
he said unto them: ‘Hear me, go ye forth through the City follow ing after him,
and smite ye every man upon whom ye shall see ‘T ha un e’.5 Ye shall slay them
from my Sanctuary. —Begin.’
CONCERNING GOD IN HIS TRINE
PERSONALITY
(MICHAEL and his Spirits) These be the Characters of the Spirits who do teach
unto you all Mystical Sciences (see Figure 41).
file:///C|/WINDOWS/DESKTOP/GLENNS~1/MAGICAL2/GRIMOI~1/grimoire%20of%20armadel.htm (22 of 66) [10/08/03 17:43:33]THE MAGIC OF
In this Sigil be taught the Mysteries of the Trinity Whom Abraham our Father
knew, believed in and confessed. There is also taught herein how It is pleasing
and harmonious in Itself, and by what ways It may be propitiated, as hath been
communicable through Its Adorable Attributes. There is also (herein) taught how
the whole may be communicable unto and in Thee, and as regardeth Thee in a
profound and wonderful manner, through the Combinations of the Letters which
be in the Great Central Triangle, between the Small Orb and Triangle. There is
also (herein) taught how the Science of God may be communicable through His
Attributes unto all Created Beings; and especially those most profound Mysteries
which He operateth with regard both to Angels and Men, the which be shown
through the combinations of the Letters which be without the Small Orb.
Also in all this Science thou shalt observe the Combinations of the Letters, of
Geometry, and Gilgud or of their Numbers, in thy searching examination of all
Sigils.
CONCERNJNG GOD, THE PRESERVER,
THE DESTROYER, AND THE CREATOR
(GABRIEL and his Spirits) These Spirits do teach you all kinds of Mysteries.
Thus is the Character (see Figure 40).
file:///C|/WINDOWS/DESKTOP/GLENNS~1/MAGICAL2/GRIMOI~1/grimoire%20of%20armadel.htm (23 of 66) [10/08/03 17:43:33]THE MAGIC OF
In this Sigil is taught what Mysteries the Lord God is willing to permit to operate
in Creation, through the uncontaminate Inner Knowledge whereof also
(Abraham) did rule and govern himself and went forth by the command of the
Lord God to travel in the Land of Chanaan, wherein also he sojournrned and was
buried by his two (Sons) in a Mystical Sepulchre, that is to say in the Cave near
unto Cariatarbee, wherein also Abraham, Isaac and Jacob were interred. Now this
same Cariatarbee is Hebrew Mambre, and Ephrata.
In this land did Abraham behold Three and Adore One, and thus was it counted
unto him for righteousness.
In this Sigil is taught Who be those Three Persons meet to be adored, and how
they do harmonise together; also as concerneth the Angels and Men what
Mysteries they do operate; also how they do harmoniously act through Created
Beings, Angels and men. All these things be shown forth in the Letters and in the
Sigil herewith given, through their Number and Combination.
file:///C|/WINDOWS/DESKTOP/GLENNS~1/MAGICAL2/GRIMOI~1/grimoire%20of%20armadel.htm (24 of 66) [10/08/03 17:43:33]THE MAGIC OF
CONCERNING THE CREATION OF ALL
THE ANGELS
(OCH and his Spirits) These do teach you what is the Nature of the Angels.
These subjects fail under the domination of Och who is a Solar Spirit, and should
be invoked on a Sunday at Daybreak. Thus are the Characters (see Figure 39).
In this Sigil there is taught what is the Nature of Angels; what may be the object
and end of such Creation and whether it be established to operate in the
preservation and destruction of all Creatures. There is also taught Who and What
is that Promised Messiah; what is the Kingdom; What is the Kingdom of Israel;
what the Restitution through Him for the Wretched; what kind of a Prophet He
may be; and what things can be performed by the Messiah for the welfare,
file:///C|/WINDOWS/DESKTOP/GLENNS~1/MAGICAL2/GRIMOI~1/grimoire%20of%20armadel.htm (25 of 66) [10/08/03 17:43:33]THE MAGIC OF
restitution all liberation of His people in Daya (sic).
In this Sigil as in others (Magical ones), there be Mysteries through the
combination of Geometry, Gilgud and Numbers, as well as points relating to
Geometrical (Symbolism).
CONCERNING THE LIFE OF THE ANGELS
BEFORE THE FALL
(ZAPHKIEL and his Spirits) These do (not) teach you of what nature is the Life
of all Angels, and their business and intercourse. Thus be their Characters (see
Figure 38).
file:///C|/WINDOWS/DESKTOP/GLENNS~1/MAGICAL2/GRIMOI~1/grimoire%20of%20armadel.htm (26 of 66) [10/08/03 17:43:33]THE MAGIC OF
In this Sigil there is taught what was the Life of the Angels before the Fail. There
be taught also the Mysteries of their habitation; whether there be a place of
habitation for the Rebellious Angels; whether there may be found a Place
Impassable and Void; whether the Angels were without any affection of passion
soever; whether they were created in happiness; and whether such is confirmed
unto them.
file:///C|/WINDOWS/DESKTOP/GLENNS~1/MAGICAL2/GRIMOI~1/grimoire%20of%20armadel.htm (27 of 66) [10/08/03 17:43:33]THE MAGIC OF
CONCERNING THE EVANGELIC
REBELLION AND EXPULSION
(LUCIFER . BELZEBUT . ASTAROT) These Spirits teach you what were the
Rebellion and Fail of the Evil Spirits. Thus be their Characters (see Figures 35,36
and 37).
Characters of his Princes
file:///C|/WINDOWS/DESKTOP/GLENNS~1/MAGICAL2/GRIMOI~1/grimoire%20of%20armadel.htm (28 of 66) [10/08/03 17:43:33]THE MAGIC OF
In this Sigil there be taught what was the Rebellion of the Angels and what was
its cause; what were the Mysteries of their Life; whether their life should be
understood as a continual action; whether the Names of these Angels were given
unto them through the commands of God; what things have been committed unto
them, whence and of what kind; and whether a certain Angel be allotted unto any
or unto some especial commands. There be taught also herein certain most hidden
Mysteries, alike admirable and not admirable, concerning their Life, which same
be revealed unto very few, (especially the comprehension of their Mode of Life
before the Fall).
CONCERNING THE CREATION OF THE
SOULS OF MEN
(ARATRON) This Spirit teacheth unto you the Creation of the Souls of Men,
and what they really are; as also their estate after Death. When you cause these
Spirits (under Aratron) to come unto you, see that you remain not long in their
company. They will also tell you by writing, that which you desire to know. This
file:///C|/WINDOWS/DESKTOP/GLENNS~1/MAGICAL2/GRIMOI~1/grimoire%20of%20armadel.htm (29 of 66) [10/08/03 17:43:33]THE MAGIC OF
is his Character (see Figure 34).
In this Sigil is taught what is the creation of the Souls of Mankind, and what is the
object and end of such Creation. Also what portion of the Angelic Host did rebel;
and what time they rebelled; and how the Rebellious Angels were cast out. Also
by the Virtue and in the Virtue (of this Sigil) there be also taught Unrelatable
Mysteries regarding that Rebellion and that Expulsion, as well as the Time of that
Rebellion and Expulsion.
file:///C|/WINDOWS/DESKTOP/GLENNS~1/MAGICAL2/GRIMOI~1/grimoire%20of%20armadel.htm (30 of 66) [10/08/03 17:43:33]THE MAGIC OF
CONCERNING THE LIFE OF MAN
(PHUL. GABRIEL) These Spirits, besides the Life of Souls and of Man, do
teach unto you all the Sciences which you shall desire to know. Thus are his
Characters (see Figures 32 and 33).
In this Sigil there is taught what may be the Life (of Man) and the Creation (of
Souls) even until the time of their sending forth into Bodies.
There be also taught the great Mysteries which the Lord is willing to perform; and
whether all Souls were created from such a creation alike and at one time, and so
also whether such be reserved in a certain place so that going forth thence they
may be sent into Bodies and rule therein for a period of time.
file:///C|/WINDOWS/DESKTOP/GLENNS~1/MAGICAL2/GRIMOI~1/grimoire%20of%20armadel.htm (31 of 66) [10/08/03 17:43:33]THE MAGIC OF
These Spirits are to be invoked on a Monday and at Daybreak.
CONCERNING THE WAYS OF KNOWING
THE GOOD ANGELS, AND OF
CONSULTING THEM
(ZADKIEL, SACHIEL) These Spirits do give you in all things whatsoever
advice may be good and fitting; they discover unto you all kinds of treasures, give
them unto you and carry them whithersoever you request. They can also give you
a Purse wherein is Gold and Silver. They appear unto you as soon as you invoke
them, which should be on a Thursday and at Daybreak. Thus are their Characters
(see Figures 30 and 31).
file:///C|/WINDOWS/DESKTOP/GLENNS~1/MAGICAL2/GRIMOI~1/grimoire%20of%20armadel.htm (32 of 66) [10/08/03 17:43:33]THE MAGIC OF
In this Sigil is taught of what description be the Angels of Light and Glory. There
be also taught the Mystical Period of such a Life; and Mysteries, as they were
unutterable, concerning such a Life; also that there was a certain Interval between
their Creation and sending forth, and what be the Mysteries of such Interval.
CONCERNING THE DEVILS
AND THEIR LIFE
(BET0R) This Spirit maketh you comprehend who and what the Devils or Angels
of Darkness really are; the difference of their Names; their Powers; and what they
can do. He, being invoked, appeareth speedily, and that at any time and at any
hour. Thus is his Character (see Figure 29).
In this Sigil there be taught what are the Devils or Angels of Darkness; how they
can be known and understood by their proper Names; and how they are to be
distinguished from the Angels. Also whether the Devils can fully be known by
proper Names; and whether the Virtue of God is impressed upon them, or
followeth hereupon.
file:///C|/WINDOWS/DESKTOP/GLENNS~1/MAGICAL2/GRIMOI~1/grimoire%20of%20armadel.htm (33 of 66) [10/08/03 17:43:33]THE MAGIC OF
There is also herein taught how we can attract such Angels unto us as Familiar
Spirits by the knowledge of their Names.
Also the Mysterious Operations of such Angels, both as regardeth ourselves and
our actions.
CONCERNING THE WAYS OF KNOWING
THE DEVILS AND OF BANISHING THEM
(LAUNE) This Spirit again giveth unto you the knowledge of the Devils, but 1
counsel you not to avail yourself of his services, for he is a very wicked Spirit and
a deceiver, who will do all in his power to entrap you, and afterwards he will
mock you. Thus is his Character (see Figure 28).
In this Sigil there is taught whether they can have proper Names as distinct from
the Angelic Names, seeing that they were transformed through their casting out:
whether they can lead their lives in any definite place, or wherein there is a place
determined; whether it be permitted in the Spheres or in the compounded
file:///C|/WINDOWS/DESKTOP/GLENNS~1/MAGICAL2/GRIMOI~1/grimoire%20of%20armadel.htm (34 of 66) [10/08/03 17:43:33]THE MAGIC OF
Elements. Also there is herein taught whether they have free will; in what way
they conduct themselves in the places which they occupy; Also whether where
they live be determined by the Power of their Expulsion.
Whether again there was an interval between their Expulsion and the Creation of
Adam, and (if so) what interval. Herein also are taught unheard of and most
terrible Mysteries, of such Interval and of Life.
CONCERNING THE DEVILS AND HOW
THEY MAY BE BOUND AND BECOME
VISIBLE
(BRUF0R) This Spirit again teacheth unto you the nature and quality of the
Devils, and the difference of their names and titles; how they can bind invisibly
and how we can bind them. Avail not yourself of him. This is his Character. (See
Figure 27).
file:///C|/WINDOWS/DESKTOP/GLENNS~1/MAGICAL2/GRIMOI~1/grimoire%20of%20armadel.htm (35 of 66) [10/08/03 17:43:33]THE MAGIC OF
In this Sigil is taught how we can compel the Devils to show themselves visibly
in the forms which they usually take to frighten and deceive (men).
There is also (here) taught how we may know them, for the Devils are known by
their Names. Also whether and how from their Names their actions and
operations can be known. Also how by the light hereof we can find out the means
of driving them away from us and from our works and operations.
CONCERNING THE DEVILS AND HOW
THEY CAN BECOME VISIBLE
(HEMOSTOPILE) This Spirit again will make you see and know the Malice of
file:///C|/WINDOWS/DESKTOP/GLENNS~1/MAGICAL2/GRIMOI~1/grimoire%20of%20armadel.htm (36 of 66) [10/08/03 17:43:33]THE MAGIC OF
the Devils, and will give you as many of them as you may wish. Avail not
yourself of their services. Thus is his Character (see Figure 26).
In this Sigil there be taught the methods whereby we can oblige the Devils to
show themselves visibly in torments. They can deceive men and assume their
forms, and change the just inclinations of men into evil passions. (Also there is
herein shown) how they can take such forms, and from what media, and what
methods they make use of (to do so).
CON CERNING THE DEVILS AND HOW
file:///C|/WINDOWS/DESKTOP/GLENNS~1/MAGICAL2/GRIMOI~1/grimoire%20of%20armadel.htm (37 of 66) [10/08/03 17:43:33]THE MAGIC OF
THEY MAY BE BOUND AND COMPELLED
TO VISIBLE APPEARANCE
Now this is the Object of the Diabolic Qabalah.
(ASMODEUS. LEVIATAN) These Spirits teach you further the Malice of the
Devils. Avail not yourself of the services of these Evil Spirits who are deceivers.
It is alone the Name of God which can enable you to force them and all others to
come unto you. Thus are their Characters (see Figures 24 and 25).
In this Sigil be the methods whereby we can force the Devils to show themselves
file:///C|/WINDOWS/DESKTOP/GLENNS~1/MAGICAL2/GRIMOI~1/grimoire%20of%20armadel.htm (38 of 66) [10/08/03 17:43:33]THE MAGIC OF
unto us in their torments and that in bodily form.
THE SACRO-MYSTIC
THEOLOGY OF OUR
FATHERS
CONCERNING THE SCIENCE OF
THE REGENERATION OF ADAM AND HIS
CHILDREN BY PELECH
We have given and told unto you many things regarding the Good Spirits who
can serve you faithfully. Those we are here about to speak of can also do the
same, seeing that they served our First Parents from the Creation of the World.
OPHIEL is a Spirit of Piety. He will teach you all the Wisdom of our First
Father. Thus is his Character (see Figure 23).
file:///C|/WINDOWS/DESKTOP/GLENNS~1/MAGICAL2/GRIMOI~1/grimoire%20of%20armadel.htm (39 of 66) [10/08/03 17:43:33]THE MAGIC OF
Characters of the Spirit which be under the
domination of OPHIEL
In this Sigil there be taught the Mysteries of the Regeneration of Adam and his
Children m Time, through Pelech now shown forth visibly as Jesus. Also the
forms of those in torment.
CONCERNING THE NATURE
OF THE GENII
ANAEL is a Spirit which will give unto you the Knowledge of all things which
file:///C|/WINDOWS/DESKTOP/GLENNS~1/MAGICAL2/GRIMOI~1/grimoire%20of%20armadel.htm (40 of 66) [10/08/03 17:43:33]THE MAGIC OF
he in the Order of Nature (understands), for he is a Spirit of Power, who
appeareth speedily if he shall be invoked on a Sunday at Daybreak by one who is
alone and in a retired place. Thus is his Character (see Figure 22).
In this Sigil there be taught who and what the Genii are, as also their power and
virtue. There be further shown the Mysteries of the Present, Past and Future Age.
In this Sigil is hidden the Science of Merchants. Also here be those things which
do appear and are reputed to be supernatural. Also herein we can obtain the
revelation of unknown things, but this (is only granted) unto the Elect of God.
Also the Praxis of those Arcane Secrets of the Lord is declared and demonstrated
in this Sigil, wherefore Adore the Lord thy God with thy whole heart, and love
thy neighbour. In the Praxis or working of this Sigil thou shalt constate that the
effects hereof be certain and true yet (causing) the greatest wonder and
astonishment.
file:///C|/WINDOWS/DESKTOP/GLENNS~1/MAGICAL2/GRIMOI~1/grimoire%20of%20armadel.htm (41 of 66) [10/08/03 17:43:33]THE MAGIC OF
CONCERNING THE TRANSFORMATION
OF THE GENIl
HANIEL teacheth unto you the transformation of all precious stones and giveth
unto you as many as you wish thereof. He is to be invoked on a Friday before
daybreak. Thus is his Character (see Figure 21).
Characters of the Spirits which be under
HANIEL
file:///C|/WINDOWS/DESKTOP/GLENNS~1/MAGICAL2/GRIMOI~1/grimoire%20of%20armadel.htm (42 of 66) [10/08/03 17:43:33]THE MAGIC OF
In this seal there is taught how Genii may be transformed into Man. They can
pass from him into their nature, and correspond unto him in the compounded
elements. There is here also taught how such may be necessary unto the Human
Race. Also the necessity of such a Mystery.
CONCERNING THE COMMUNICATION
OF THE GENII
CAMAEL giveth unto you a perfect knowledge of your Genius, who will have
the power to grant you everything that you shall demand of him. There be many
Spirits under the rule of (Camael) who can serve you in many things, and
especially such as you shall demand of them. Thus is his 0-taracter (see Figure
file:///C|/WINDOWS/DESKTOP/GLENNS~1/MAGICAL2/GRIMOI~1/grimoire%20of%20armadel.htm (43 of 66) [10/08/03 17:43:33]THE MAGIC OF
20).
Characters of the Spirit which be under the
domination of CAMAEL
In this Sigil is taught what and after what manner may be this communication of
the Genius; (transforming in us) our evil (qualities) into good, and our good
(qualities) into better and best; there is also taught the method of such
transformation. Wherefore adore the Lord God and love thy neighbour
file:///C|/WINDOWS/DESKTOP/GLENNS~1/MAGICAL2/GRIMOI~1/grimoire%20of%20armadel.htm (44 of 66) [10/08/03 17:43:33]THE MAGIC OF
CONCERNING PHITONE OR THE
ABUSES OF NECROMANCY
SAMAEL is a spirit of Counsel. He teacheth you Magic, Necromancy,
Jurisprudence, and all the Occult Sciences, with facility. He is to be invoked on a
Tuesday at Midnight, care being taken to fast the day that you shall wish to avail
your self of his services. He hath much in his power, and on your demand he will
tell you the extent thereof. Thus is his Character (see Figure 19).
In this Sigil there be taught what are all the abuses of Necromancy which may
expose a man (to danger) through such communication; whether such
communication may have such virtue as to link you unto the Angels and unto
God, and to confer upon you power over all creatures, or the union of the love of
all beings with the most profound and familiar knowledge of them, or whether it
file:///C|/WINDOWS/DESKTOP/GLENNS~1/MAGICAL2/GRIMOI~1/grimoire%20of%20armadel.htm (45 of 66) [10/08/03 17:43:33]THE MAGIC OF
may join us unto the Devil even as in our mortal familiar (relationships) so can
we be linked with all things which may be pleasing unto us. There is also taught
(herein) how such communications maybe formed.
THE VISION OF EDEN, OR OF THE
TERRESTRIAL PARADISE
PHALET will teach unto you all that did happen in the Terrestrial Paradise, from
the time of the Creation of Adam and Eve. There be many Spirits under his
leadership who can do much in the manner of serving you, and in many ways.
Thus is his Character (see Figure 18).
file:///C|/WINDOWS/DESKTOP/GLENNS~1/MAGICAL2/GRIMOI~1/grimoire%20of%20armadel.htm (46 of 66) [10/08/03 17:43:33]THE MAGIC OF
In this Sigil there be taught the Mysteries of the Creation of the World, and of all
Creatures, and what (of these) be sacred; but also how those (creatures) are proper
to be detested for superstitious reasons when they draw their origin from Corpses
of the dead, and from collections thereof, and from sepulchres; and thence also is
the arising of every kind of superstitions. In this Sigil be (also) taught all the
Arcana of Necromancers and of Diviners of that same class,1 and whence in a
Scientific (sense) these (arts) take their rise.
THE VISION OF FORMATION—ADAM
DALETE is a Spirit who will show unto you the Visions which Adam beheld
while he was upon the Earth. He hath many Spirits under his leadership, who will
teach unto you many things if you tell unto them that which you shall desire.
Thus is his character (see Figure 17).
file:///C|/WINDOWS/DESKTOP/GLENNS~1/MAGICAL2/GRIMOI~1/grimoire%20of%20armadel.htm (47 of 66) [10/08/03 17:43:33]THE MAGIC OF
In this Sigil be taught and demonstrated the Mystical Formation of Adam; what
Animals were in the Lord and brought in this place unto Adam by the Lord God.
THE BEHOLDING OF THE SERPENT
GIMELA maketh you to know and behold the form of the Serpent who did tempt
Eve in the Terrestrial Paradise; (he also) can give unto you some of his Spirits
who can transport you from one place to another and can even make you travel at
the speed of an hundred leagues in an hour. Thus is his Character (see Figure 16).
file:///C|/WINDOWS/DESKTOP/GLENNS~1/MAGICAL2/GRIMOI~1/grimoire%20of%20armadel.htm (48 of 66) [10/08/03 17:43:33]THE MAGIC OF
In this Sigil there be taught all the Mysteries which the Lord is willing to allow to
be worked by the Serpent and from the Serpent; what may be his corporeal
moulding or proportion, and whether he can contain in himself all invisible
beings (or creatures) and in what manner.
THE WISDOM OF OUR FOREFATHER ADAM
BETEL teacheth unto you the Sciences which God had revealed unto Adam. He
is a very docile Spirit who appeareth as soon as he is invoked. (This should be
either) in a wood, or in a secluded garden, and one should be alone, whether it be
by day or by night. Thus is his Character (see Figure 15).
file:///C|/WINDOWS/DESKTOP/GLENNS~1/MAGICAL2/GRIMOI~1/grimoire%20of%20armadel.htm (49 of 66) [10/08/03 17:43:33]THE MAGIC OF
In this there is taught in what way we can arrive at the possession of the virtues of
all Creatures (or created things); there is (further) taught what and of what kind1
be the virtues hereof, and what (virtues) be truly most powerful above all virtues
of Creatures. There is also taught the reason of the laws of (such) virtues and of
their uses.
THE GOING-FORTH OF ABRAHAM FROM
UR OF THE CHALDEES AND FROM HARAN
ALEPTA maketh you see how Abraham went forth from Ur from among the
file:///C|/WINDOWS/DESKTOP/GLENNS~1/MAGICAL2/GRIMOI~1/grimoire%20of%20armadel.htm (50 of 66) [10/08/03 17:43:33]THE MAGIC OF
Chaldeans, and from Haran. He can give unto you great riches. Thus is his
Character (see Figure 14).
In this Sigil is taught how a Man may be exalted, and how a Man may become
formidable unto all Creatures, at any hour (and how he may be rescued) whether
out of the hands of cruel men, or from a crowd of men.
THE CAVE OF EPHRON
TETAHATIA is a Spirit of Science and Virtue, who hath preserved our
Forefathers from their enemies, rendering them formidable unto them so as to put
them to flight. He will do the same unto the Enemies of those who shall wish to
file:///C|/WINDOWS/DESKTOP/GLENNS~1/MAGICAL2/GRIMOI~1/grimoire%20of%20armadel.htm (51 of 66) [10/08/03 17:43:33]THE MAGIC OF
avail themselves of his services. Thus is his Character (see Figure 13).
In this Sigil be noted the ways whereby a blinding darkness may be produced, or
a thing terrible unto one’s enemies, also how a blessing may fail hereon.
MOSES IN THE INTERIOR OF THE DESERT
HETHATIA maketh you see even as Moses saw the benefits which he had
received from God, when he was in the Desert of the Land of Midian. He can do
much for those who invoke him, but it must not be in the desert place. Thus is his
Character (see Figure 12).
file:///C|/WINDOWS/DESKTOP/GLENNS~1/MAGICAL2/GRIMOI~1/grimoire%20of%20armadel.htm (52 of 66) [10/08/03 17:43:33]THE MAGIC OF
In this Sigil is taught the Science and Wisdom of Moses, and the Arcana of the
Egyptian Magi and Diviners; perfect happiness and the ways of causing and
inspiring fear, and of going forth from a land and for the preservation of a Man in
that (case) and place.
THE ROD OF MOSES
ZAINAEL is a Spirit who did teach unto Moses the methods of availing himself
of the Rod with the which he did perform so many miracles in Egypt, and among
the chaldeans. He hath much power to render those rich who avail themselves of
his services. He can be invoked at any hour. Thus is his Character (see Figure 11).
file:///C|/WINDOWS/DESKTOP/GLENNS~1/MAGICAL2/GRIMOI~1/grimoire%20of%20armadel.htm (53 of 66) [10/08/03 17:43:33]THE MAGIC OF
In this Sigil is taught the Practice of the Science and Wisdom of the Diviners and
Magi of the Egyptians and Chaldeans, and by what ways and means they may be
acquired.
THE VISION OF ‘MAN’
VAU-AEL is a Spirit who causeth all kinds of pleasant visions to appear, such as
our Forefathers m the Old Testament beheld. He serveth you faithfully in all that
you desire to know. Thus is his Character (see Figure 10). He hath many Spirits
under his dominion.
In this Sigil, howbeit, there is formed a certain spedes of ‘Man’ for castings out.
file:///C|/WINDOWS/DESKTOP/GLENNS~1/MAGICAL2/GRIMOI~1/grimoire%20of%20armadel.htm (54 of 66) [10/08/03 17:43:33]THE MAGIC OF
THE EXPLORER AND LEADER JOSHUA
HETAEL is a Spirit who guides armies and also can destroy them, as he did unto
the enemies of the Children of Israel under the command of Joshua, when by his
prayer the latter arrested the course of the Sun. He can render you invulnerable
unto every kind of weapon, and can give you Spirits to serve you unto this end.
He is to be invoked on a Tuesday. Thus is his Character (see Figure 9).
In this Sigil there is taught the declaring of the intentions of Enemies and the like.
Also there can be expelled all things noxious unto body and mind, and further in
like manner this Mystic (Sigil) operateth in their restoration. Also there be
Mysteries regarding ‘Man’.
THE WISDOM OF SOLOMON
file:///C|/WINDOWS/DESKTOP/GLENNS~1/MAGICAL2/GRIMOI~1/grimoire%20of%20armadel.htm (55 of 66) [10/08/03 17:43:33]THE MAGIC OF
RAPHAEL is a Spirit of Science who did teach unto Solomon1 Knowledge and
Wisdom. He is to be invoked on a Sunday before Sunrise. Thou must be both
pure and chaste when thou dost invoke him, and thou must have fasted on the
previous eve. Thus is his Character (see Figure 8).
In this Sigil is taught the manner of joining Actives and Passives together the one
unto the other, in natural things. There is also taught concerning the ‘KANSSUD’
of Earthly regions and powers, from one class unto another.
OF THE LIFE OF ELIJAH
GABRIEL is a Spirit who did teach unto the Prophet Elijah all the Mysteries of
Divinity. He is to be invoked on a Thursday before Daybreak. His Power is very
Great, and he can do you great good, in the which he will instruct you. Thus is his
Character (see Figure 7).
file:///C|/WINDOWS/DESKTOP/GLENNS~1/MAGICAL2/GRIMOI~1/grimoire%20of%20armadel.htm (56 of 66) [10/08/03 17:43:33]THE MAGIC OF
In this Sigil there be taught the Methods of restoring and transplanting both health
and mental force.
THE SPIRIT OF ELISHA
MICHAEL is a Spirit who guided the Prophet Elisha in all his actions. He is the
Protector of all Kingdoms. After God Himself, he is almost all-powerful as
regardeth those who perform his Invocation, which latter should be worked upon
a Sunday, and m the evening. Thus is his Character (see Figure 6).
file:///C|/WINDOWS/DESKTOP/GLENNS~1/MAGICAL2/GRIMOI~1/grimoire%20of%20armadel.htm (57 of 66) [10/08/03 17:43:33]THE MAGIC OF
In this Sigil is taught how there may be formed a certain composite thing by
means of which the faculties and vital Spirits (exist) as well in Man as in other
creatures, according to what is necessary for and convenable unto them.
IN THE FIELDS OF BABYLON
URIEL is a Spirit who did reveal unto the Prophet Esdras every description of
Prophesy, he did also aid the Children of Israel in the Camp of the Babylonians.
He teacheth natural Sciences, Physic, and Medicine. He is to be invoked on a
Wednesday, before daybreak. Thus is his Character (see Figure 5).
In this Sigil there be taught the method of understanding what and of what Kind
were those twin Souls (namely) Henoch. The faculties of the Mind and
Understanding are purified, and these also in such a manner that they may be
exalted from the lowest degree unto that which is most perfect of all. By the
file:///C|/WINDOWS/DESKTOP/GLENNS~1/MAGICAL2/GRIMOI~1/grimoire%20of%20armadel.htm (58 of 66) [10/08/03 17:43:33]THE MAGIC OF
which composition also there can be a transmission made of the participating
Power or that power of communication of the comprehension of Spirits.
THE SON OF ZACHARIAS IN THE DESERT
SAMAEL is the Spirit who did never abandon Saint John during the time m
which he dwelled m the desert before his preaching. He is the protector of
preachers in Missions among foreign nations. He teacheth Theology. He is to be
invoked on a Wednesday, and in the morning. His Character is thus formed (see
Figure 4).
In this Sigil is taught the harvest of the Plants of Blessedness, and such harvests;
together with the envy of the Kingdom of Behemoth and Leviathan, of the which
the Lord God did make use from the Beginning, and preserved (the same) for the
production of all creatures, and also in what manner such souls be produced (and
file:///C|/WINDOWS/DESKTOP/GLENNS~1/MAGICAL2/GRIMOI~1/grimoire%20of%20armadel.htm (59 of 66) [10/08/03 17:43:33]THE MAGIC OF
come forth).
BY THE FLOWING OF JORDAN
CAPHAEL is a Spirit who guided St. John in the desert, and when he was
preaching the Baptism of Penitence by the River of Jordan where the people were
baptized, he filled their hearts with Charity and Benediction. He teacheth an
infinitude of matters with facility.
In this his Sigil (see Figure 3) there is taught concerning the healing of barrenness
and of death concerning the Kingdom of God, and the most ardent Charity; in the
which blessed mystical Numbers (of the Sigil) there is taught unto whatsoever
Operations this is to be applied, howbeit certain special Operations do fail under
the head of certain especial Numbers. Also concerning Sciences and Arts of all
kinds and of all perfections whatsoever they may be.
He is to be invoked on Fridays and in the morning.
file:///C|/WINDOWS/DESKTOP/GLENNS~1/MAGICAL2/GRIMOI~1/grimoire%20of%20armadel.htm (60 of 66) [10/08/03 17:43:33]THE MAGIC OF
THE CIRCUMCISION OF
JESUS AT NAZARETH
The Prophet of the Greatest One; or the Languor of the Nature.
THAVAEL. This Spirit had a particular care of our Lord Jesus Christ. It was he
who conducted the Holy Virgin and Saint Joseph into Egypt when they were
fleeing from the persecution of Herod. He giveth unto us a perfect knowledge of
all the simples and their virtues. He can be invoked at any time. His Character is
thus (see Figure 2).
file:///C|/WINDOWS/DESKTOP/GLENNS~1/MAGICAL2/GRIMOI~1/grimoire%20of%20armadel.htm (61 of 66) [10/08/03 17:43:33]THE MAGIC OF
In this Sigil is taught the planting or the sowing of the Seed of Plants, the
comprehension of virtue; there are also (herein) taught the manners of flowering
as regardeth Plants, and also those inspirations of virtue and grace which be as it
were the fundamental plants of the Qabalistical ART.
They who shall write with the ginger upon the forehead of these letters I.. .N. R.
.I, will never die by a sudden death.
THE THEOSOPHY OF
OUR FATHERS
AS REGARDETH THE PLANETS
THE SANHEDRIN
ZADKIEL will teach unto you all the Sciences Active and Passive, with a
remarkable facility, with all honesty and courtesy, together with every kind of
benediction. They who avail themselves hereof will possess all things in content.
file:///C|/WINDOWS/DESKTOP/GLENNS~1/MAGICAL2/GRIMOI~1/grimoire%20of%20armadel.htm (62 of 66) [10/08/03 17:43:33]THE MAGIC OF
He is to be invoked on a Monday and in the Morning. His Character is this (see
Figure 1)
In this Sigil is taught the method of joining together Actives and Passives, or in
everything the manner of modesty and grace. In the which Numbers the Lord God
doth sanctify these Planets, so that they may work marvels, and as it were
portents, through such Numerations.
Seeing that we possess the explanation of the (Magical) Circle, (let us here state)
that it is (Employed) for the Invocation of Spirits, so as to escape the dangers
which might arise through their malice. Now it having been duly prepared for you
to avail yourself of the Services of the Spirit you desire (to Summon) it is
necessary to take heed that you comprehend the power which he hath and
whether he can grant you that which you shall demand.
file:///C|/WINDOWS/DESKTOP/GLENNS~1/MAGICAL2/GRIMOI~1/grimoire%20of%20armadel.htm (63 of 66) [10/08/03 17:43:33]THE MAGIC OF
Being, then, in the midst of the Circle, wherein you are to perform the Operation,
and having made the Character (or Sigil) of the Spirit who shall serve you: you
shall see that the Circle be (correctly) formed according to the instructions we
have (elsewhere) given. Being then, I say, in the midst thereof, after having
recited the Pater, an Aye, together with the Credo, you shall repeat the following
Conjuration:
CONJURATIO
Omnipotens Aeterne Deus, Qui totam Creaturam condidisti in laudem et honorem
tuum, ac ministerium hominis, OTO ut Spiritum (N.N.) de ( ) ordine mittas, qui
me informat et doceat quo ilium interrogavero, non mea voluntas fiat, sed Tua,
per Jesum Christum Filium Unigenitum. Amen.
O Eternal Omnipotent God, Who hast formed every creature unto Thy praise and
honour, and for the Ministry of Man: I beseech Thee to send unto me the Spirit
(here give the name of the Spirit) of the (here give the name of of class or Order
of Spirits) Order, who may inform and teach me concerning those things which I
shall demand of him, nevertheless not my Will, but Thine, be done, through
Thine Only-begotten Son Jesus Christ. Amen.
Having obtained from the Spirit that which you desire, you shall license him to
depart in these words:
THE LICENCE TO DEPART
file:///C|/WINDOWS/DESKTOP/GLENNS~1/MAGICAL2/GRIMOI~1/grimoire%20of%20armadel.htm (64 of 66) [10/08/03 17:43:33]THE MAGIC OF
Quia Placide et quiete ven isti, et hac petitione mihi res pondisti, ago Deo gratias
in Cujus Nomen venisti, ite in pace ad loca tua et rediturus ad me cum te
vocavero per Christum Dominum nostrum. Amen.
TRANSLATION OF THE FOREGOING LICENCE TO DEPART
Seems that peaceably and in quiet thou has come, and hast made answer unto me
in this (my) petition, I return thanks unto God, in Whose Name thou hast come.
Depart hence in peace unto thine habitations, and be thou ready to return
whensoever I shall have called thee. Through Christ our Lord Amen.
After having repeated this Conjuration three times, if so be that the Spirit apeareth
not unto you, you shall repeat the present (following) Conjuration three times.
And these Conjurations should be written out on virgin parchment, together with
the Licence to Depart.
THE CONJURATION
I (N.N.) do Conjure thee (O Spirit N.N.) by the virtue of the Great and Holy
Names of God, that immediately and without delay thou art to appear unto me
file:///C|/WINDOWS/DESKTOP/GLENNS~1/MAGICAL2/GRIMOI~1/grimoire%20of%20armadel.htm (65 of 66) [10/08/03 17:43:33]nazov knihy ==================secretsofancient00youn.pdf
^HtSECRETSo ANCIENT:
ANDMODERNiAAGIC.
OR THE ART OF CONJURING UNVEILED
A H s er p r er A f l o e r x m a e n d de b r y , t a b n e d "W o o th n e d r e s r . ful Co M m a p g r i i c s i i an n s g , al H l o t u h d e i i n r , Be Co s l t . S S t t a o g d e are T , ric H k el s le a r, nd Wy g n i i v a i i n i, g
FullExt)lanationsforPerformingthem_
T
s
h
u
e
o
s
c
e
e
T
s
r
s
i
f
ck
n
s
U
"
v
ar
i
e
n
E
tl
l
i
e
e
ga
F
n
a
t
r
l
l
y
or
Il
o
l
r
us
o
t
n
ra
t
t
l
e
ie
d
S
t
t
h
a
e
g
r
e
e
.
-
bymakingthem mucheasiertoperform,and
teachesthereaderat once how to he aMa-
gicianwithoutanyfurtherinstructions. Any
clear headed person can studythis Book a
short time and perform the most difficult
Trickdone by the best magicians in any
c a o n u d ntr b j r ' i . ng Y b o ow u ls ca o n f r g o o l l l d tw fi o sh Ka f b r b o i m ts an in E to mp o t n y e
H o a r n m d a k k e e rc a h C i a e r f d;V o a r n T i e s f h la fr C o a m rd th b e y pa S c m k ell a i n n d g b it e ;
t f R C t o i a V s u r - e n d o d u b o o g n i d h n i t l a h a y e P H e p o a o u r n i t s d n o k t n o e f s r of c P a h o a i c P e k S a e f w c t : o k r; t d o; or ; m t C a o t a o k t e m c pu a h l a k l a e M C a M a li o r C o n k a s e e r e y d d n
L s P w t i i o a c v r n t e t t u h l r R y e ab a a F b p r i p h t a e u s m a n e r o d u r; t i e n idt o a f t n e d a a o c O l H h l r a e a d r t s i s n t a a h n t r e o d y w t B o h o n e u d n q e u r B e f o t u t l E S m c C C F a l l h h a h l a h n ; e o g i o k a d t S n t n w e w F n p h o e e e e s e l h g e L s r y r f i a e m m i e s f l i " y v a r n r C e a " g e o k g o i i l S a r m l n e n i o I^ l G o t t l D n l" i l o o i a l w M o n a d u b v o A t s s a H o o e n n t o s i n a r u R s h s o e t t r o e i n o w y o n E f n e o o; e w T g g C f r ; u e r e g W t t t ; i d a T n o a Q o c n r t : t u t k o i r o m t e t a e c K f e o a s r a m r : k t m k t k ; a u T e i t p a ' o ; e k h o a n t l f n k e e e B t t y a s e s o o o a a O r n H S ; s b F m a r p m i a e o t l e p u o x v n a o v l o p A l w e d k e l w e p e r e m k C e a e p a t d e a T a r l r l s r r r k e e R i c d F; e v B i c P s h r e ; i k o n e i t r r i t g s e h a d t i n l h s e t f o - l - a ;
Know. IheCabinetofProteus
ortheHomeof Skeletonsand
S T t D p r e r i u i r u r c i k m t ; s i t s h o ;a un t m f h g a o e r k t e t u I o n n e d a t i n t h a o e n a or n c B d e a i i a l s n m i k a n a e r g - y t
t W a o p m o a r nro S l l l e;ep to i m n a M k i e d a Air L , iv f i i n v g e
f V Il a r l n o u i m s s tr h a a i t n i p g o e n r s s ; G o l n t o ' o v s e P ; r m o o t d o u u t c t h e ak E ;e g t g h s e a
s D e o n z d en a B B a o b r i r e o s we f d ro K m in a g H i a nt t o;a t n o
E o t t i h o g T e u e g r H o ; t a A t h c n o e e d r s pa t s o H h s e a l e a n d i d t R h t e i :i r n g t g h o F t f i l r n y c o g h m e b a r y n t g h o e e a f
p c e ar r d s s o ; n ac I a n r to dto fo v u a r nish dif a l n fe d re b n e t
f p a l o m e u o a n s n d e g s w . m he a T r n h e y e ve o r f ab t t o h h v e e e w p a o e r n r e d f e o h r r f m f e e u w r l
T h r o i w cks to th p a e t r t f h o i r s m. Boo A k ny t p e e a r c s h o e n s
d P s m e h a e s o r n i r l t r t o i r n o o t g r r im t H o e S al h g l i o f , v w r e o c m a c a n i n t t E h l h e n e i r t a s e r r n i t B n i a o n i o n k - a a
t
C
r
o
i
m
ck
p
s
an
e
y
no
f
u
o
g
r
h
two
to
Ivm
d
r
el
s
i
.
^'M^hatny a
of these Tricks are the tx'st
everperformed.Onetliousand
dollarsa night has been re-
c v e e i r v y ed Tr a i t c t k h s e p d e o r o f r o t r o me se d e . th Y e o s u e
c t P t d h a o a r e r e n i A s l T g i s l o ; e A , r o n d a a ^ t o d n m r s t r d , . S e t O t t s s h a h O e s e i g n . s m , e t , B M b A o a y s a o g n k k m i a d c i y i . s l o . p , u w e r S M o p r e r o f f . n s h o r t d i r a e m p Y f n t a o d h i r O s . d i u t t U f . i o o s r b N an u r d G y , w d- o < , . o r j t» u ,l s a t r 1 s n 7 o ^t 3 w „o p G „a n u n„ d b r v- l ^ t e h -p e „e us n g w et i t i F y c h m i m a p v i h t l e r c C o d S o C e w p s t o n i i p . r e y , B e s s o a t o N n o t k d . o o f T n Y r l e e e e . r e a a . m r d s n -!
A NEW AND WONDERFUL BOOK !!
JJJST PUBLISHED.
OF
Making
Love
SOLVED,
OE, AN
Sasy Road MarMage.
to
startEiglitandtlieBattleisHalfWon
Alife studyand mostenergeticlaborlias
been givenbytlieAntlior,toproducetliis
singular Book. Nothing'like ithas ever
before lefta Printing Press? A man in
love, or a lady whose heart has been
touched with the burning fire of True
Love,will find in this Book StrangieiSe-
c a r n etEsa t s ha y t nWoafyrien t d o c M ou a l r d r t i el a l g t e hem l , li a r n o d '
I4;ve's IntricatePatliway. Italso
C.>nrains many Ancient Hidden Stci'ets
nattheMarried should know. Ifawife
asawayward hu^^baiid, or feelsthat she
isneglected, getthis Bookinhishandsat
once,audit will surely reclaim himtohis
firstlove. Itstartles whileitteaches. It
proves thattheWay toWinisno longera
secret. Ifyoufollow thisvriiter's advice
failuretowinthe objectof yourchoiceis
impossible. Send for thisEook. Itwill
payyouathousand timesitsprice. Every
civilizedandbar'nu'oushasbeen ransacked toget Tlie Secrets
e 3I;iiiiiig. Itwillbring joyto thousands ofboth sexes,and
M-elieirts andhands tobeunited in Marriage thanall other in-
^ combined. This Book teaches you how to meet every
ftiu_;--K'v cniuected withCourtship aud Matrimony,and hns already
htcd in immense sensation amongevery gradeof society that ithas
jh l i u U. geI T t. il cu i t n s gs de r e e p ga a r u d d ing st L ri o k v e e s M t a h k e in r g oo w t hi o c f h t y h o e i: t n r e e v e. er M l t ie i a s rd lu o l f l be o - f
ltyouareinlove, and itisnot reciprocated, this Great Bookw-ill
wideLove's barred door for you, and break down every barrier,
relous truths burstforth from everypage, and theBeacon Light of
)ve illumineseveryfootstepandmakes Love'sPathwayclear.
SampleCopyandTermsto Agents, sentbyMail postpaid,for25 Cts.
orFiveCopies to one address for $1.00. Ask four friendsto buy one
eaclx,andthusgetyourownBookfree. Addressallorders.
M. YOUNG, 173 Greenwich Street, New York.THE STUDENT'S ANUAL
PS
OF PHONHIC and
Short
WITHOUT A
M:A.K^TEXi..
[Matthew6thChap.3dto9tliVebse.]
CompleteIntroductiontotheStenographicArt,asused forBusiness Cor-
respondence,andVerbatimReporting. ThemostPracticalBookfor
Bsginuars, supervised and arranged
im-y- :h]_ iBXJi^Lisr^;^
TeacherofPhonographyatVieNfio YorkMercant'le LibraryandCooper Union,'
andPrincipalofNew YorkSchool,ofPhonograpi-i'.
IM
'
r
•
a
T
l
H
s
E
d b
S
y
TU
Pl
D
at
E
es
NT
Sa
'
v
S
ing MFAriNntUidAL
T
k
O P
i
H
h
O
S
N
r
I
g
C
i
S
M
H
k
O
i
R
i
T
i
HAND" is based wliolly upon asystem thathasbeenrefiuced to everj'-
d ca a p y ab pr l a e ct o i f c b e. ein T g h w e ri s t i t g e n n sa w r i e th all ext c r o a n o s r t d r i u n c a t r e y d q o ui n et s n i e m s p s l , e c p a l n an b s e;r a e n a d d , e w a h s i i l e e r
t t h h e an s t o h u e nd p s la i i n nes a t ll pr l i a n n t gu c a o g p e y s . a E re ach fe s w i , g i n t p s la t i a n n l d y s i t n o di r c e a a t s e o s n a th s a o t un th d is ;p a h n o d ni a c s
methodisincomparably easierofacquisitionthananyof the old methods.
Aboyoftwelvebythis methodwill learnin aweekwhatit would take an
alultayeartolearnby the obsolete way. It is hardlynecessai-yto point
outthemanyadvantages ofShortliand Writing. Everyyoung man about
tostartintheworldwillfind thisart of immense service to liim. To say
nothingofitsabsolute necessity to an editor,apressorlegal reporter,itis
valuabletoclerks,lawyers, travelers, andjiiercliants. Thisworkistheonly
simpleandthorough exposition oi theprinciple andpractice ofthe art of
Shorthandv/ritingpublished,and itiswrittenwithspecialreferenceto the
wantsandrequirementsofthose whodesiretolearn
WITHOUT THE A!D OF A TEACHER.
m e c h E s h a i h d a i x a r T s o v g v p k i y h r i h e e o e t e s b n r s s e . e t t h t a b i c l o h t o S m a o r e h t M o e r t e m e i , k a a . n e r t S o n s i H t i i t u . s O y m ' u e e e r i x d x t , U u I ' t h e u A ^ p v < r a n j n i i - t o > c v i t t U p s ; n o e . - V i i p t i . - : w n o r i n o i v l . t l t i i ' f k v o ' p ] K i f S n e s w c I ( r r v i p t l i t i c i r n o l i h r i i h i l l l r k i s t s . a l i ^ h h s . l I n o i i c < m e i . i - i I v o . t i ' i c s o i r n , ^ l k i a o l S m i i a m d i o w c d . n a i r i c c t d l t o o u h l C n r H n s o i a c i v r = b i : n i n c e l e u - s o i t e s i , a n ' l x U i s < i o v T t ( n i e i w i i r e m n : u s i : i t p l n - ' r i v l l . c i i . , . p ; p - r > ^ o ' - . s i e r n » o - l . a . o i i i s . o n n a v « o t i t i d n « r 6 . ' a . . - K ' i a , h ; , i ' o i v l i i — w e u f v u ' n . i d e # o , i i x n t n f ; l n c i p j i r u v a o e j : e ; n n O ; t i s t l s i i l s s . l ^ i , t r . a i e < i - t m M : ; e , ^ < t . e , . a l - i n i i i r a ) i : t n o r F . i l . V . i - , s , r - w v a i t i a l ' s ; a 5 B p i y o i 5 y t o n s d - n ( e o h i . d ( e t n u e ( y ) c r , w B o s c s a c e a a o m p n i j y n o a m , r i e r d k a w l a e n o i o i r d p w u c n n n i r l t e a l e t d s a l , a s - o
b P tt r I i n c c e on , st 5 an 0 tn C se t w - hiieI'- . a ' r ' n V i ; n . ^ '" r > . '/ ^--'"Vsl.our.din doih. Gilt. $ \ .QO,Postpaid.
Publishedby H. YOlINi
,
173 GreemvicliSt., NeivYork.is '.5
SEOKETS OF ANCIENT
AND
MODERN MAGIC:
OR THE ART OF %Q
I
CONJURING UNVEILLED
A« PEEFOEMED BY THE WoNDEEFUL MAGICIANS, HOUDIN,
HELLER, HERR ALEXANDER, MASKELYNE
& COOKE, BAUTIER and othees.
COMPRISING
AlljDSi-'THEiE Best Stage Teicks, giving Full Explana-
tions FOE PeEFOEMING THEM SUCCESSFULLY IN
THE PaELOE OE on THE StAGE.
NEW YORK
: .
173 GEEEN\^^CH Sxeeet.Enteredaccordingto theActof Congress in the year 18S0, by
M. YOUJVG, inthe Office of the Librarian of Con-
gress, at Washington, D. CPREFACE.
HIS volume is designed to be a path, if
followed to the end, mayprove to be an
opensesame tothe Mystery or Art of Con-
juring. TheCompilerhas confined himseli'
tothe explanation of some ofthe leading
—
Specialties or Tricks, those that are the
—
most popular, the most mysterious, the
most wonderful. We donot claim thesole
authorship ofsome of these very perfect
descriptions and beautiful Illustration, as a portionofthem
havebeen selected from Englishand French Authors, the
mostprominent workthat we are indebted to is" Modern
Magic," 500pp.published inEngland. Itisthemost complete
worK publishedin any country. It can bebought of any
New YorkBookseller, orwecanfurnishit. Price $2.50,CONJURING AND MAGIC.
[Flate yearsAmateurMagiciansh — avesprouted uplike
mushrooms all over our land, starting from the
'woodshed to the schooihouse show they have, in
'many instances, "hired a hall," and given very
Weditable performances. W — hynot? Some of these
boyAmateursbye-and-bye musttaketheplacesthat
areleftvacantbyHeiler,Herman,McAllister,Wyman,
I j Nicholl, andthosethatarenowastonishingthiscount-
ry J o » y :|p theirmarvellousfeats. ThattherehasbeenJuggleryinall
agesoftheworld the pages of history abundantly prove. The
ancientreligion of the Heathenwere mixed up with an ex-
tensive system ofLegerdemain, and were more or less tissues
oftrickery, slight-of-hand tricks of the tongue, by which the
word waskeptto the ear butbroken to the hope, andvarious
miraculous deceptions were themeans by which thepriestsof
Egypt, GreeceandRome used to subjugate mankind. The
moreimportantsecrets ofthe arthavebeen known tobutfew,
and these few havejealously guarded them, knowing that the
more closely they concealed the clue to their mysteries, the
morewould those mysteries be valued. Atthepresentdaythe
s tr e i c c r k et p s e o r f fo th r e me a d rt u a p r o e n no t t he so St w a el g l e k w e h p i t ch ; a th n e d a t m he a r t e eu i r s h m a a r y dl n y ot a
purchaseforareasonable expenditure.
Thereis avastdifferencebetweentellinghowatrickisdone
and teaching how to do it. If the reader will dilligently
follow the instructions given in this little book, he will be
able, in duetime, notonly to astonish his friends extempore
withaborrowed coin orpacks ofcards, buttorolltworabbits
into one, and bring bowls of gold fish from empty pocket-
handkerchiefs. But everyone cannot be a Houdin, or a
Heller, oraBautier, ora Wyman, butanyone by practiceand
perseverancecan become a toleralDleConjuror, Persevere. A
wizard isnottobe made in aday.
Thefirst rule to beborne in mind by the aspirantis this :
"Nevertellyour audience beforehandwhatyouaregoingtodo." If
you doso, you at once givetheirvigilance the directionwhich
itismostnecessary to avoid, and increase tenfold the chances
ofdetection. We will give an illustration. There is a very
good trick (whichwill be described at length hereafter) in
whichtheperformer, afterborrowinga handkerchief, gives it10 MODEKN MAGIC,
to someonetohold. When itisreturned, it provestob© torn
into small pieces. Itisagain handed to the holder, who is
instructed, in order to restore it, torub itinaparticular man-
n T e h r es ; e bu ef t fe w ct h s e a n re ag p a r i o n du u c n e f d old b e y d, suc i c t es i s s iv f e ou a n d d roi i t n s a ubs l t o i n t g ut s i t o r n i s p , .
and thewhole magicofthe trick consists in the concealment
oftheparticular momentatwhich each substitutionis effected.
Now, if you were to announce to the audiencebeforehandthat
you were about to cause the handkerchief to appearinseveral
pieces, orin along strip, theywould at once conjecture that
the trickdepended on an exchange, and theirwhole vigilence
being directed todiscover the momentof that exchange, you
would find itall butimpossible to perform the trick without
detection. If, on the otherhand, you merelyroll up the hand-
kerchiefandasksome oneto hold it, theaudience,notknowing
whatyouare aboutto do, have no reason to suspect that you
have handed him a substitute and when the transformation
;
is exhibited, the opportunity of detection will have already
passedaway.
Itfollows, as apractical consequence of this first rule, that
youshouldneverperform the same trickonthe sameevening. The
besttrick loses halfits effecton repetition, but besides this,
the audienceknow precisely whatis coming,and havealltheir
facultiesdirected to find outatwhat point you cheated their
eyes onthefirst occasion. It is sometimes hard to resist an
encore, but alittle tact will get you out of the difficulty,
especially ityou have studied, as every conjuror should do,
thevariation and combination oftricks. There areascoreof
differentways ofvanishinga givenarticle, andasmanyof re-
producingit
;
and eitherone ofthe firstmay be used in con-
junctionwith eitherofthe second. Thus, by varying either
thebeginningorthe end, you make the tricktosome extent a
new one. The powerofdoing this readily is veryuseful, and
among other advantages will enable you to meetan encore
by performing some other trick having some element of
simiiarity tothatwhich you havejust completed, but termi-
natinginadifferent andtherefore unexpectedmanner.
Thestudentmustcultivate fromtheoutsettheartof "talk-
ing,"and especiallythe powerofusinghis eyesandhistongue
independentlyof themovementofhishands. To do this, it
willbe necessary to preparebeforehandnotonlywhat he in-
tends to do, but what he intends to say, and to rehearse
frequently and carefullyeventhesimplesttrickbeforeattempt-
ing itin public. Itis surprising howmany little difficulties
are discoveredon firstattemptingto carryinto effecteven the
c c l o e m a e re t st he w s r e it di t f e f n ic d u i lt r i e e c s t . ion T s h;e an no d vi n c o e th m i a ng y b b u e t e p n r c ac o t u i r c a e g w e i d ll b o y ve a r s- -
suming, as hesafely may, that the most finished of popular—
11 MODEEN MAGIC.
performers wasonceas awkward as himself, and were he to
attemptany unfamiliarfeat, would probably be as awkward
still.
A conjurorshouldalwaysbe able to "palm"well. That is
doneby holdingacoin in the fingers, and by a quick move-
mentpassinginto themiddle orpalm ofthehand, andbycon-
tractingthe muscleson each of the hand to retain it there
makingthehand appearopen andas though nothingwere in
it. Afteralittle practice this will becomecomparatively easy ;
butitwillrequirethe exercise of great perseverance in order
to becomeperfect. The pains, however, willbe wellbestowed,
asthis is one of the principalmeans bywhich prestidigiators
deceive their audiences.
MAKINQ THE PASS.
In many of thetricks with cards, itis necessary to "make
the pass,"asitistermed, which is a very neat and simple
movement. Theoperatorshows acard, which he wishes his
audience to believehecan change simply byusingthemysteri-
ous words, "Presto, begone !" "While, however, he is saying
thesewords, he gives a sharp blow on the pack heholdsinhis
hand, andatthesame time slips the card under the pack and
takesoffthe top one, orviceversa. Practice, in thisasinother
matters, willimpart greatdexteritytotheoperator
;
and asthe
hand canbe trained to move more quickly than the eye can
see, he will he able to go through themovementwithout it be-
ingperceived by hisaudience.
Thefollowing mode of "making the pass"shouldbe well
studied :—Hold the packof cards in your right hand, so that
t th h e um pa b l o m f o t f ha y t ou h r an h d an o d n m o a ne y b si e de un o d f e t r he th p e ack c , ard a s nd; p t l h a e ce fir t s h t e ,
second and third fingers on the other side, and your little
fingerbetween those cards thataretobebroughttothetopand
the restofthe pack. Then placeyourlefthand over the card
insuch amanner thatthe rhumbmaybe at 5, the forefingerat
6, andthe otherfingersat7, asin the accompanying figure
Left hand.
Righthand. 7
Bottom Top
LittleFinger
512 MODERN MAGIC.
Thehands andthetwo portions of the pack beingthus dis-
posed, you drawoft the lower cards, confined by the little
lingerand theotherparts ofthe right hand, and place them
withanimperceptibly quick motion on the top ofthe pack.
But before you attempt any of the tricks that depend on
"making the pass"' you must have greatpractice, and be able
to performitsodexterously and expeditiouslythatthe eye can-
not detectthemovement ofthehand,-or you may, instead of
deceiving others, expose yourself.
FORCING A CAED (sttMtalacoupe.)
Incardtricks also it is frequently necessary to *'force a
card," bywhichyou compel aperson to takesuchacardasyou
thinkfit, whilehe imagines he is taking one at haphazard.
Thefollowingis perhaps, the bestmethod of performing this
trick:—Ascertain quietly, or whilst you are amusing yourself
w ei i t t h h er th k e ee c p ar i d t s i , n w si h g a h t t, t o h r e p c l a a r c d e i t s he w l h it i t c le h fi y n o g u er a o r f e y t o o ur f l o e r f c t e h ; an b d u , t
inwhich you have the cards, uponit. Next—desire a personto
selectacardfrom the pack, for which purpose you must open
them quickly from the left to right, spreading the cards
backwardsand forwards so as to perplex him in making his
choice, and when you see him aboutto takeoneopen the pack
untilyoucome tothe one you intend him to take, and just at
themomenthis fingers are touching thepacklet itscornerpro-
jectinvitinglya little forward in frontofthe others. Thiswill
seemsofairthatin ninecases out of ten hewill take the one
sooffered, unless he is himselfaware of the secret of forcing.
Havingby this method forcedyour card, you request him to
examineit, and thengivehimthepacktoshuffle, which hemay
do as often as he likes, for you areofcourse always aware
what card he has taken. A perfect acquaintance with the art
offorcing is indispensably necessary beforeyou attemptanyof
themore difficult card tricks.
THE "LONGCAED."
Anotherstratagem connected withthe performance of many
ofthe following tricks is what is termed the "Long Card;"
thatis, acard either a triflelongeror widerthan the restofthe
pack, so asnotto be perceptible to the eye of the spectator,
buteasily distinguished by the touch of the operator. Goo(i
operators sometimes have both cardsin the pack. Any book-
binder will shave the edges ofyourpack so as to leave you a
longand awidecard.
Having laid down what we may beallowed to term the
"leading principles" which ruletheart of card conjuring, we
now proposeto explain the various trickswhich maybe per-—
MODEEN MAGIC. 13
formed withapack ofordinary playing cards. They depend
to someextentforsuccesson natural dexterity, aknowledge of
the science of numbers, and somo simple apparatus, easily
procured ormade byan ingenious youth. For instance, §11
the court cards maybemadetoc — ometogetherbyrelyingupon
the doctrineof chances. Thus i Take the pack, separate all
thekings, queens, andknaves, andplace them all together in
any part ofthe pack you choose. There are five hundred
chancesto theone thata strangercannotintwelvecuts disturb
the order in which they are placed. This trick is easy, and
whensuccessfully carried out is amusing. Itmay be made
moresoby placingonehalfoftheabovenumberofcardsatthe
bottom ofthe packand theotherhalfatthetop. Of a similar
characteristhe famoustrickof
GUESSING A CAED TOUGHT OF.
— To dothiswellyoumustattendto the followingdirections:
Spread outthe cardsonthe righthand insuchamannerthat
inshowingthemtotheaudience, not asingle card is wholly
exposed to viewwdth the exception ofthe king of spades, the
upper part of which should be clearly seen without any
obstruction eitherfromthefingers or from the other cards.
When youhave thusspread them out, designedly in fact, but
appareotlyatrandom, showtheiii to one of the spectators, re-
questicghimto thinlyofacard, andatthe sametimetake care
to movethehand a little,soastodescribe a segmentofacircle,
inorderthattheaudiencemaycatch sightofthekingofspades
withoutnoticingthattheothercardsareallpartially cancealed.
Then shufflethecards, butin doingso youmustnotlosesight
ofthe king ofspades, which youwillthenlay onthetable face
downwards. You maythen telltheperson who has thought
ofa card thatthe onein hismind ison thetable, and request
him toname it. Should henamethe kingofspades, whichhe
wouldbemost likelyto do, youwillofcourseturn it up and
show ittothecompany, who, if theyare not acquainted with
t n h a e me tri s c o k, me wil o l th b e e r v c e a r r y d — mu sa c y h t a h s e to q n u i e s e h n ed o . f I c f, lu h b o s w — ev y e o r u ,h m e u s s h t ou te l l d l
himthathismemoryis defective, andthat the card could not
havebeen thecard he atlirst thought of. Whilst telling him
this, which youmust doatas greatlengthasyou can in order
to gaintime, shufflethe cards rapidly, and apparentlywithout
anyparticularpurpose, untilyoureye catchesthe card he has
justnamed(the queen ofclubs). Putitonthetopofthepack,
and, stillappearingto be engrossed with other thoughts, go
throughthefirstfalse shuffle tomakebelieve thatyou have no
particularcard inview. When you have done shuffling, take
caretoleavethequeenofclubson the top of the pack then
;14 MODEKN MAGIO.
takethepackinyourlefthand, and thekingofspadesinyour
right, andwhiledexterously exchangingthe queenofclubsfor
theking ofspades, "What mustI do, gentlemen, thatmy trick
shouldnotbe afailure? what card should Ihave inmy right
hand?" Theywillnotfail to calloutthequeen ofclubs, upon
which you willturnitup, and they willseethatyouhavebeen
successful.
Thistrick,whenwellexecuted,alwayshasagoodeffect,whether
thespectatorthinksof the card you intended him to think
or, from a desireto complicatematters,ofsomeother. It, how-
ever, requires considerablepresence ofmind, and thepowerof
concealing fromyouraudiencewhatyourrealobjectis.
Another method otmak
—
ing thespectatorthinkofanyparticu-
larcardis the following : Passseveralcards underthe eye of
the person selected, turningthemoverso rapidly that hesees
the colors confusedly, withoutbeingable to distinguish their
numberor value. Forthis purposetake thepackinyour left
hand, and pass theupperpartinto your right, displaying the
frontofthecardsto the audience, and consequently seeing
onlythebacksyourself. Passone over the other so rapidly
thathewillnot beableto distinguish anyone of them, until
you cometo the cardwhich youdesire toforce —presuming of
coursethatyou havemade yourself acquaintedwith its posi-
tion. Thecard youselect ought to be a brightlooking, and
easily distinguishableone,suchas the king of hearts or the
queenofclubs. Contriveto havethiscard alittle longer be-
foreyouraudiencethantherest, but avoid all appearance of
effort, andleteverythingbe done naturally. During the in-
tervelwatchthe countenanceofthespectator,inorderthatyou
may be sure he notices the card you display before him.
Havingthusassured yourselfthat hehas fixed"uponthe card
you selected, and thatheisnotacquaintedwiththe trick, you
thenproceed asbefore. Should you come to the conclusion
thathehasfixedupon some other card, you will then have
recoursetothe " exchanged card" trick, as explained in the
previoustrick.
TO TELL A CAED BY SMELLIKG.
A very clever trick, and one which never fails to excite
astonishmentatanevening party,is toselectall thecourtcards
o w n h e en of b t l h i e nd p f a o r l t d y ed in ; t b o ut yo b u e r fo c r o e n c f o id m e m n e c n e ci a n n g d i g t et yo h u im mu t s o t as t s a i k s e t
you. When allisarrangedyou maytalk of the strong senso
ofsmell and touchwhichblind peoplearesaidto possess, and
statethatyoucould, when blindfolded, distinguish the court
cards from therest,— and profess yourwillingness to attemptit.
Theprocessisthis; Afteryou havesatisfiedthe companythatMODEEN MAGIC. 16
youreyesaretightlybound, takethepackinyourown hands,
andholdingupone ofthe cardsinviewofthewholecompany,
feelthefaceofitwithyourfingers.Ifitisacourtcard,yourcon-
federate, who should beseated nearto you,musttread on your
toe. You then proclaim thatit is acourtcard, and proceed to
the next. Should you then turnup a commoncard your con-
federatetakesnonoticeofit, and you inform the company ac-
cordingly and soonuntilyou have convinced the company
;
thatyoureally possess the extraordinarypower to which you
laid claim.
TO MAKE A CABD VANISH FEOM THE PACK, AND BE FOUND
IN A PEBSON's POCKET.
Slightlymoisten thebackofyour lefthand. Offerthe packto
be shuffled. Place it face downwards onthe table,andrequest
oneof thecompany to lookatthe top card. Bequest him to
placetheback ofhislefthanduponthecardsandpress heavily
upon it with hisright.Inorderthathemaythebettercompre-
hend your meaning, place your ownhands as described in
figure, andrequesthimtoimitate you. Whenyouremove your
lefthand, the backbeing moistened, thecardwillstickto it.
Putyourhands carelesslybehind you,andwiththerighthand
remove the card. All will crowd round to see the trick.
Pretend to be very
particular that the
personwho placeshis
hand on the card
shall do so in pre-
ciselytheright posi-
tion. This will not
only give you time,
butdraw all eyes to
his hands. Mean-
while, watchyourop-
portunity and slip
thecard into the tail
pocket ofoneorother
ofthespectators.Now
announce that you
areaboutto orderthe
top card, which all
haveseen, and which
Mr. A. is holding
down BO exceedingly
tight, to fly away
from the pack and
intothepocketofMr,,16 MODERN MAGIC.
B., making tlie clioice a})|)aiently Lap-hazard. On examina-
tion yourcommands will befoniiclto liaA^e been fulfilled. It
hasagood effect, when practicable, to slip the card into the
pocketofthesame person whois pressing upon thepack.
TO PLACE THE FOUR KINGS IN DIITEEENT PABTS OE THE PACK,
AND TO BBING THEM TOGETHER BY A SIMPLE CUT.
Take thefourkings(oranyotherfour cardsatpleasure),and
exhibitthem fan-wise (see Fig. ), but secretly place behind
the second one (theking of diamonds in the figure) two
other court-cardsofany description,which, beingthushidden
behind the king, will not be visible. Theaudience being
satisfied thatthefourcardsarereally the fourkings, andnone
other, fold them together, and place them at the top of the
pack. Draw attention to thefactthatyouare abouttodistribute*-
theye four kings in different partsofthe pack. Take up thti
top card, which, being really a king, youmay exhibit without
apparent intention, and placeitatthebottom. Takethenext
card, which thespectators suppose tobealsoaking, and plact;
itabouthalfway down the pack, and thenext, inlike manner,
a littlehigher. Takethe fourth card, whichbeing actually a
king, you may show carelessly, and replaceiton thetopofthe
pack. You havenow
really three kings at
the topandone atthe
bottom, though the
audience imagine that
they have seen them
distributedindifferent
partsofthe pack, and
are proportionately
surprised, when the
cardsare cut, to find
thatall the kings are
again together.
It is best to use
knaves or queens for
thetwo extracards, as
being lessdistinguish-
able from the kings,
should a spectator
catchachance glimpse
oftheir faces.
There are other and
bettermodes ofbring-
ing together four ap-
parently separatedMODERN MAGIC. 17
cardsbytheaidOfsleight-of-liand, which willbe explained in
due course ; butwe have thought it well to give also this
Bimplermethod, asit icalwaysanadvantange to possess two
differentmodesofperformingthesamefeat.
A CAED HAYING BEEN WITHDEAWN AND EEPLACED, TO CALL IT
FEOM THE PACK, AND TO MAIia IT COME TO YOU OE ITS
OWN ACCOED.
Thisisa very simple trick, but, if neatly executed, will
—createa good deal ofwonderment. Itis performed as follows:
You must procure beforehandalong hairfrom alady'shead.
One end ofthis mustbefastened bymeans of a bent pin, or
inanyother way you find most convenient, to the front of
your waistcoat, which should bea dark one. Attheother end
ofthehairfix a little roundball (about halfthesize of a pep-
per-corn) of bees'-wax. Press this little ball lightly against
the lowest button of your waistcoat, to which itwill adhere.
Yonwillthus always be able to find itin a moment'snotice
without groping or looking down for it, which wouldbelikely
to draw the eyes ofthe spectator in the samedirection.
E-equest theaudience to examinethe cards, thattheymaybe
sure that thereis no preparation about them, and as afurther
proofget two or three persons to shuffle them in succession.
When the cards are returned to you, invite some person to
drawone, and, while heis examining it, drop your righthand
carlessly to your waistband, and remove the little ball of wax
to thetipofyourright thumb, to whichitwill r/lhere without
interfering with the movements ofthe hand. ^ -n the card
a is n r d et p u r r e n s e s d t , he ma l k it e tle th b e all pa o s f s w t a o x br u i p n o g n it t t h o e t b he f o > f of th t e he car p d a , ck a , s
near the edge as possible. Then sluK^iethe cards. The
shuffle may be a genuine one, butyon must take care to keep
the lower edgeofthe chosen card hnlt an inch orso below the
remaining cards, that thelittle ball <;fwax maynotbe disturb-
ed. The chosen card will, after the shuffle, bein the middle
of the pack, but attached to your waistcoat by the hair.
Bpvend thecaxdsface upwards on thetable (by which means
thewax, being on the back ofthecard, will be out of sight),
takingcare notto detach the hair. You then—address your
audience to the following or some similar effect: "Inthe old
style ofconjuring, I should merely have pickedoutyourcard,
andhanded itto you ;and there wasatime whenpeoplewould
have thought that avery good trick, but nowadays we should
regard that as avery lameconclusion. Ican assure you that
Ihave not the smallestideawhatyourcard was. How doyou
suppose I intend to find out?" Various guesses arehazarded,
but you shakeyourliea4 ateach, No,''yon continue, my18 MODEEN MAGIO.
process is much simpler thananyyou havesuggested. Ishall
merely order the card you chosetowalkout of the pack, and
cometo me." Pronounce any magic formulayou like, at the
some time beckoning to thecards, and gradually withdrawing
yourselfaway from the table, whenthe card mustneeds follow
you. Asit reaches the edge ofthe table, receiveit in the left
hand, and then takeitin the right, drawing off with the first
fingerand thumb ofthe lefthand the wax at the back. Ask
theperson who drew whether that was his card, and again
hand the card and the rest ofthe packfor examination. This
little trtck, thongh simple, willrequire agood deal ofpractice
to enable youto perform it neatly, butthe effect produced by
itwillwell repay your trouble.
Itmay be well to mention, once for all, as bees'-wax is an
article offrequentuse inmagical operations, thatif, as some-
times happens, the purewaxis found too hard, or not suf-
ficiently adhesive, the addition of a small quantity (sayan
eighth part) ofVeniceturpentine, mixedwith it in a melted
condition, willmakeitall thatcanbe desired.
THE MAGIC SWOED. A CAED BEING DRAWN AND EEPLACED, AND
THE PACK FLUNG IN THE AIE, TO CATCH THE CHOSEN
CAED ON THE POINT OP THE SWOED.
There isatricksomewhat similar in effect, in which, the
packbeingflungin the air, thechosen card is caught in the
hand ofthe performer. Thetrick in this form makes a very
good prelude to thestill more surprising one which we are
about to describe.
Inthe trick '^ovementioned, an ordinary pack is used, and
thespectator i., owed to draw whatever card he pleases. The
card, when retu V is broughttotho top by the pass, and
palmed and, thou^.. -nipposed to be caught amid the falling
shower, ; in reality nevt i leaves thehandofthe performer, The
audience may possibly Lare a suspicion ofthis, and you may
hearafaint murmurto the ffect that "hehad the card in his
hand!' and so on, "When this occurs, it serves as a very
natural introduction tothe trick with the sword. You say,
t " h A e h tri ! c y k o , n in fa o n r c d y er I h to ad sh t o h w e c y a o r u d th i a n t m y y ou ha a n re d? m . is I ta w k i e l n l . re W p i e l a l t
someonebe kind enough to draw anothercard. Thankyou.
Don'treturn thecard to me, butput it backinthe packyour-
self. Now be kind enough to shuffle thoroughly. You cannot
sayI have the card in myhand this time, at all events. Ex-
cuse me one instant, while I fetch my magic sword," You go
behind your screen, and return, holding in your hand a
drawn sword. You place yourself in fencing attitude, and
addressing the person whoholds the cards, say, "I am goingMODERN MAGIC. 19
to give yon the xrords, one ! two ! three! Atthe word "three!"
will you pleasethrow the cards in the air, so as to fall lightly
onthe point ofmy sword, when Iwill pickout with the point
theidenticalcard you drew. Spread the cards a little in a fan
shapebefore youthrowthem, so thatImay get afair sight of
them. Are you ready? One, two, three !" At the wordthree,
the cards are thrown, the performer makes a lunge among
them, andacardinstantlyseenfluttering on the point of the20 MODEEN MAGIC.
sword, and, on examination, is found to be the very card
which was drawn.
The secret,ofthissurprising featlies mainly in the sword.
This isan ordinary small-sword (seeFig,), with a three-sided
rapier blade, but altered in aparticular way for the purpose of
thetrick. The tip ofthe blade {see Fig.) is cutoff at about a
third ofan inch distance from the extreme point, and across
concave side of this tip, and also across the corresponding
part of the shortned blade, are soldered minute cross-
pieces of brass, each bent outwards in the middle
soastoform, with the concavity of theblade, a kind of eye
justlarge enough to admitfreely apiece of thin black elastic
cord, the other end ofwhich is passed through a similar small
holein rhe guard of the hilt. Theelastic thus lies along the
hollow side of the blade, passing through the two "ej'-es',
alreadymentioned, and is keptin position by a knot at each
end. The tension ofthe elastic holds the moveable tip in its
naturalposition atthe end ofthe blade. Itmay, however, be
drawn away from it in any direction asfar as the elastic will
permit, but, when released, immediately flies back to its old
position. Onthe same side ofthe hilt—viz., the side farthest
awayfrom the palm ofthe hand when graspingthe sword (see
Fig)—is fixed aflat, oblong piece of tin, painted black, with
its longer edges folded over about half an inch on each side,
in such manner as to form a receptacle for a card.
Unless you are tolerably expert in forcing, you will also
require some forcing cards of the same pattern as the or-
dinary packyou have in use. These, however, need not be
a fullpack, a dozen cards alike being amply suflicient for
your purpose. You commence your preparations by taking
one of the cards of the forcing pack, cut a small slit in its
centre with apenknife, and thrust completely through it the
moveable tip of the sword (taking care not to eularge the
hole more than absolutely necessary), and place the sword
i^hus prepared out ofsight of the audience, but so as to be
easilj''gotatwhen you want it. Have your forcing cards in
yourpocket, or somewherewhereyou can lay your hand on
themwithout attracting observation, and your ordinary pack
on the table. Youmay beginby remarking, " Letme ask you
totakeparticular notice thatIperform this trickwithwhatever
card3^ouchoose, not influencing your choice in any way. To
show you thatI don't compel you to takeany particular card,
Iwilljusttake ahandful ofcards from the topofthe pack" (as
you say this you placeyoMrforcing cards, which you have pre-
viously palmed, for aninstant on the ordinary pack, immedi-
atelytaking them offagain, asiftheyh'edformedpart ofit, and
were thehandfulofcards youreferredto, and offer them to.
someQneto draw)MODEKN MAGIC. 21
Take whicherer you please—first card, last card, middle
card, it is precisely thesame to me. Observe that I don't at-
tempt topress upon,you any particularcard,butholdthecards
perfectmotionless while youmake your choice." As soon as
a card drawn, withoutwaiting forit to be repleaced, return to
your table, holding the remaining forcing cards in your left
hand. Pick up the pack with your right hand. Place it on
the cards in yourlefthand, at the samemoment making the
passto bring these cards to the top. Palm these (with the
right hand), anddropping them into your profonde, or else-
whereoutofsight, advancewiththepack to the person who
drew, and request him to replace his card, and shuffle
thoroughly. While he does so, you retireto fetchyoursword,
asbefore mentioned. Before returning tothe audience, you
prepareitas follows :—Takingitin your right hand in the
ordinary manner, you draw down with the other hand the
pierced card, and slidathe card endways into the receptacle
on thehilt. The elastic, which is now stretched to double its
ordinarylength, will pullatthe card pretty tightly ; but you
retainitin position by pressing on the faceof the card with
the second and third fingers ofthe hand that grasps the hilt.
Havingdonethis, you return to the audience, taking care so
tostand thatthebackoi the hand that holds the sword shsdl
betowards them. When the cards are flung in the air, as
alreadydescribed, you make alungeamong them, and at the
samemoment relax thepressure ofthe fingers on the pierced
card. The elastic, being thus released, flies rapidly back to
its original position, and carries the moveable tip, and with it
thecard, tothe end ofthe blade, by whichthe card appears to
be transfixed, asin Fig. The movement ofthe sword in the
lunge, coupled with that ofthefalling cards, completely covers
the rapid flight ofthe pierced cardfrom hiltto point. To get
the card offthe sword, pull it down the blade, and tear it
roughly off. Whenyou have taken offthe card, dropthepoint
ofthesword, and hand the cardat once to the drawer for ex-
amination This serves to direct attention, notonly from the
.
sworditself, butalso from the cards scattered on the ground,
amongwhich the one actually drawn still remains.
This trickis sometimes performed with three cards instead
ofone. Theworking ofthetrickis the same, save that you
use a forcingpack consisting ofthree cards repeated, and that
in preparingthe sword the two first cards which are threaded
on the elasticare perforated with holes of such a size, as to
allow them, when released, toslide partially down the blade,
t ie firstnearlyto thehilt, andthe second abouthalfway.22 MODEKN MAGIC.
—
THE BISING CARDS {La HoukUe). SEVERAL CARDS HAVING BEEN
DRAWN, RETURNED, AND SHUFFLED, TO MAKF. THEMRISE
SPONTANEOUSLY FROM THE PACK.
This is one of the best of card tricks. The performer ad-
vances, packinhand, to thecompany. Heinvites three per-
sons eachto drawacard. The cards havingbeen drawn, they
are replacedin different partsofthe pack,which isthoroughly
shuffled. The performer then places the pack in a tin box
orcase, justlargeenoughto hold it in an upright position.
This caseis generally in theform ofalyre, open in front and
atthe top, and supportedon ashaftorpillar, twelveor fifteen
inches high (seeFig. Hethenasks each person in succession
to call forhis card, which isforthwithseen torise slowly from
the pack, without anyvisible assistance, theperformer stand-
ingquite apart.
Theingenuityofdifferent professors has added little embel-
lishmentofa humerous character. Forinstance, the performer
mayremark, addressingone of the persons who drew, I will
not evenask the nameofyourcard, sir. Youhaveonlyto say,
' Icommand the card I drew to appear,' and you will be
o m b a e i y n ed o . b " sti H na e te d l o y es mo s t o i , on b l u e t ss n . o ef T f h ec e t c is o p m r m o a d n u d ce i d s ; r t e h p e ea c t a e r d d , s b r u e t -
withthe sameresult. The performer feigns embarrassment,
and says, "Imust really apologizeforthe disobedience ofthe
w ca a r y ds b . efo I re c . ann I o a t m tel a l fr h a o id w I it mu i s s t; t as h k ey y n o e u ve t r o b n e a h m a e ved the in ca t r h d i , s
afterall, whenIwilltry my own authority." Thecards proves
tohave beenaqueen, saythe queen of spades. "Oh," the
performersays, " thatquite explainsit. Queens are not ac-
customedto beorderedabout in such premptory manner. If
wetryagain in becoming language, I dare say we shall be
moresuccessful. Letustry the experiment. Say, 'Willyour
Majestyobligethe companyby appearing?" Thuspropitiated,
thecardrisesinstantly. Occasionallya knave is one of the
cards drawn, and, when summoned, scandalizes the performer
byappearing feetformost. Heisappropriatelyrebuked, and
trust down again bythe professor, uponwhichheimmediately
reappearsin properattitude. Sometimes a card, after coming
up halfway, begins to retire again, but atthe command ofthe
performerstartsafresh, andrises completelyoutofthe pack.
These apparently surprising effects are produced by very
simple means. In thefirst place the cards which rise from
the packare notthoseactuallydrawn, but duplicates ofthem,
arranged beforehand. The performerensures the correspond-
ing cards being drawnby using aforcingpack, made up of
repetitionsofthecardsin question, whichwewill suppose to
be the queeuofspades, the teaof hearts, aad the seven of—
MODEEN MAGIC 23
diamonds, withsomeothersinglecard atthebottom
.
Thetin
case, intheoriginalform ofthetrick, hastwo compartments
the onetothefrontbeing large enough to hold a complete
pack, but the hinder one ad-
aptedto contain six or eight
cardsonly. In this hinder
compartment are placed six
cards, three ot them being
those which are intended to
rise, and theother three in-
different cards. A black silk
thread is fastened tothe upper
edgeofthe partition between
thetwo compartments, and is
thencebroughtunderthefore-
mostcard (which is, say the
queen of spades), over the
next(anindifferentcard)under
the fifth (the seven ot
diamonds), over the sixth (an
indifferent card), finally pass-
ing out through a minuute
hole at the bottom of the
hinder compartments. Ifthe
thread is pulled, the three
cards named will rise in suc-
cession, — beginning with the
hindmost viz., the seven of
diamonds. The three indif-
ferentcardsare putin as par-
titions, or fulcrums, for the
threadtorunover, ifthesepar-
titionswereomitted, the three
chosen cards would rise all
together.
The threadmay be drawnin
various ways. Sometimesthis
isdone by the performer him-
self, standing behind or be-
sidethe table. Another plan
istohavethe thread attached
toasmall cylinderical weight
within the pillar, which is
made hollow, and filled with
sand. The weight rests on
the sand until the operator
desiresthecards torise, when, by moving a triggerat the foot
ofthepillar, heopensavalve, which allows the sandto trickle
slowlydownintothe cavityatthebase andtheweight, being
thus deprivedofitssupport, gradually ; sinks down, and pulls24 MODERN MAGIC.
thethread. (The pillarin this case is made about two feet
high, as the weight must necessarily travel six times the
length ofcard.) Others, again, draw the threadby means of
clockworkarrangement in the table, or in the pillar itself,
answeringthe same purpose as the sand and weights. The
arrangementwhich v/eourselves prefer, where practicable, is
to have the thread drawn,by an assistant, who may evenstand
in fnll view ofthe audience, so long as he is at some little
distancefrom the table. Thesilkthread is quite invisible, if
only you have atolerably darkbackground. The onlyportion
astowhichyou need feel any anxiety is that immediately
connected with the cards. To conceal thisit is well, if you
useaaspecialtable, to haveasmall hole bored in the top,
through which thethread may pass. The cord-stand being
immediately in front ofthe hole, the thread will pass per-
pendicularlydownward forthe first portion of itslength, and
will thus be concealed behindthepillar. In defaultofahole,
f, pu n r i p j o ^' se o . f b T e h nt e w g i re r a e t a a t d t v a a c n h t ed age to o t f h h e a t v a i b n l g ew t i h l e l t a h n r s e w a e d r p t u h l e le s d a b me y
a personinstead ofamechanical power is, thatyou can take
yourowntimeinthe performanceofthe trick;whereas, ifyou
use aweightorclockwork, thereis always a danger of a card
beginningt—o rise beforeyou have called for it, orpossibly not
risingatall either contingency being rather embarrassing.
In the latest and bestform ofthetrick, the secondcompart-
mentofthecaseis dispensed with, and the apparatus may be
handedroundfor examination both before and afteritisused.
In this casethree cards are forced and returned as already
mentioned but theperformer, as he reaches his table, adroitly
exchanges t ; heforcing packfor another already prepared, and
placedon the servante if a regular conjuring-table is used, or,
if not, concealed behind so — me object on the table. This
pack is prepared as follows: The last six cards are arranged
with the thread traveling in and out between them, just as
thesixcards inthe hinder compartmentwerein the olderform
ofthetrick. A knot is made in the silk thread, which is
hitched into a notch an eight of an inch deep, made in the
lower edge of the sixth card. The knot prevents the thread
from slipping, but doesnotinterfere with itsbeeninstantane-
ouslydetatched when, the trick being over, you hand the
whole apparatus, cards andall, to be examined.
TO MAKE A CABD STAND UPRIGHT BY ITSELF ON THE TABLE.
This is alittletrick of hardly sufficient importance to be
p co e u r r f s o e rm o e f d s b o y m i e tse m l o f r;e but pre a t s en a t n io i us nci i d l e lu n s t ion i , nt p r r o o d d u u c c e e d s i a n ve t r h y e
good effect. A great deal of the sparkle of a conjuring en-
tertainment depends upon the performer's readiness inwhatMODEBN MAGIC. 25
may be called "by-play," consisting of a number of minor
tricks not supposed to form part of the settled programme,
but merely introduced incidently, and used, as it were, as
agarnish to the more importantfeats. Thus, when acoin, an
egg, or other small article, is required for the purpose of a
trick, the performer may fetch it openly from behind the
scenes, or have it handed to him by his servant ; but this
is commonplace proceeding. The higher class ot perform-
ers prefer insuch cases to produce the articlefrom the hair,
whiskers, or pocket of oneofthe audience andin likeman-
ner, when the artiele has served its purp ; ose, to make it
vanish by some magical process, rather than by the prosaic
methods of every-day life. These little incidents serve to
keep theaudience on the qui vive, and they further assist
materiallyin keepingup thecontinuityofan entertainment. In
Athoroughly goodperformancetheaudience should have no
timeto think, butshouldbeled direct from one surprise to
the contemplationofanother.
Thetrick we are about to describe is of the class above
alluded to. Inthecourseofone orotherofyour card tricks,
^ouhave ormake occasionto asksome personto go and place
agiven card on the table, ortoexamine a card alreadyplaced
t y h o e u re c . hec H k e h d i o m e . sso " , N a o n , d s i i s r, ab th o a u t t w t o o n' r t etu d r o n , t I o w h a i n s t p e l v ac e e ry ; bo b d u y t
to seewhat carditis. Willyoubegoodenoughto stand it up
onend, withitsface tothe company, so that everybody can
s " e N e o i t t.' d ' oit H ? e " l y o o o u ks re f p o l o y l . ish, " a M n y d f d i e n a a r ll s y ir s , a i y t s 's t t h h a e t s h i e mp c l an e ' s t t d t o hin it g .
intheworld. Allowme andtaking thecardfrom him, you
placeit rightupon the table, and leave it standing without
anyvisiblesupport. Takingit upagain, you hand it round,
to show thatthereis no preparation aboutit, andon receiving
itback, againstand itupright, but with the other end up-
wards or, if challenged, allow the audience themselves to
choose ; a card, which youcause to stand alone with equal
facility.
Thesecretliesintheuseofaverysmall and simplepieceof
apparatus, being, infact, merely astripof tinor sheet brass,
an inch andahalfin length, and five eights of— an inch in
w sh i o d r t t h e , r b a e r n m t b a e t in a g s o h n a e d - e th l i e r s d s o t f h i a t n sle a ng r t i h g . ht O a n ngl t e he s o a u y te 85 r o s ; u i r t - s
face ofthelongarmisspread athin layer of bees'-wux (made
more adhesive by theaddition of a small portion of Venice
turpentine;, andto the inner surface of the shorterarm is
soldered asmall piece of lead, about an eighth of an inch
thick. "Whenyou desire toperform the trick, you have this
littleapplianceconcealed in yonrrighthand, the longer arm
betweenthe first and second fingers, and the shorter arm26 MODEEN MAGIC.
pointingtowards the..otlefinger. Picking up the card with
the lefthand, you transferittotheright,takinghold of it in
suchmannerthatthe fingers shallbe behind, the thumb in
front ofthecard.
As you place the
cardonthe table
(which, by the
way, must be
covered with a
cloth) you press
againstit(seeFig)
thewaxed sideof
the Bilp of tin,
whichwill slight-
ly adhere to it,
andthus form
prop orfoot, the* '
littlelumpoflead;
actingasacount-'
erpoise to the
weight of the
card, You pick
it up with the
same hand, and
asyou transfer it
to theother, you
will find no dif-
ficultyinremoving and secretingbetweenthefingers thelittle
prop.
If thewaxisproperlyamalgamated, itshould leavenomark
on the card.
TO MXKE TWO MARKED COINS, WRAPPED IN SEPARATE'HANDKER-
CHIEFS, COME TOGETHER IN ONE OF THEM.
Borrowa25centpiece, andapenny, requestingthe owners
tomarkthemthatthey may be sure of knowing them again.
Alsoborrowtwo pocket-handkerchiefs. Palm in your rignt
hand apenny ofyour own, andthrow overthesamehandone
of theborrowed handkerchiefs. Thiswill effectually conceal
the substitutepenny, whichyou nowtakebetweenthe finger
andthe thumb. Holding thehandkerchief spread out upon
theopenhand, you take up with the left hand the marked
pennyandplaceiton thehandkerchief,asiftowrap it there-
in, butatthesame timewith the third fingerpush a fold of
thehandkerchief under the substitute penny in your right
hand. You nowinvertthe handkerchiefoveryourlefthand,;
MODERN MAGld.
^oramimite, allowingthe marked penny to drop back into
thathand, andatthesame timetwist thefold alreadymention-
edaround thesubstitute. The audience see the shape of a
coinwrapped upinthe handkerchief, and naturally believe
thatitisthatofthemarked penny whichyouhave apparently
placed inside it. In realty it is that of your own penny,
wrapped merelyinanoutside fold. You now hand the hand-
kerchieftosomeone tohold, requesting himto graspthecoin,
andholdtightly.
Themarked
penny,itwill
be remember-
ed, remains
in your left
hand, and
markedonthe
tsble. Asyou
go to take up
the latter,you
transfer the
penny toyour
right hand,
and palm it
then pick up
the quarter,
holding it at
the tips of
the fingers, Spread the second handkerchief on the open
palm ofthe lefthand. Bringthe quarter down smartly upon
it, andby the game movement let thepenny fall from the
palm on to the handkerchief. The two coins will be lying
(coveredby the righthand) on the handkerchief, a couple of
inches apart. Closethelefthand on both coins, and turnthe
hand over, so thatthe edges ofthe handkerchief hangdown.
With the righthand grasp thehandkerchieffive orsix inches
belowthe coins. Take one ofthese through thehandkerchief
betweenthefingerandthumb of the left hand, lettting the
othertall looseinsidethehandkerchief, whichyou then invite
someone to hold inlikemanner, but inahorizontal position.
(/SeeFig.) This position is adapted in order that the two
coins may not, byaccidental chink, prematurely disclose the
factthatbothare alreadyin;thehandkerchief.
Younow announcethatyou are about to make both coins
passinto onehandkerchief. Advancing to the person who
holds the firsthandkerchief, you request him, still maintain-
inghishold, to removehis htindfourorfiveinches below the
thecoin, to give room tooperate. First ehowing that yourMODEKJI MAGIC.
handis empty, yougentlyrub the substitute penny through
the handkerchiefbetween your finger and thethumb, when,
beingonly wrappedwithin thefold, it quicklyfalls into your
hand. Noone everthinks ofinquiring atthis point whether
itis themarkedone ornot. Taking itinto the left hand, in
positionforPass4, yousayto the person holdingthe second
handkerchief "Having extracted this penny from the one
t ha o n u d c k h e t r h c e hi h e a f n , dk I e w r i c l h l ie n f o , w b p u a t ss wi i l t l i s n i to mp t l h y e ta ot k h e er t . he I co w i o n n't in ev m e y n
hand, and say,
*Pass!' Willyou
be good enough,
atthe word 'pass,'
to let go of the
coinyouarehold-
ing, butstill keep
hold ofthe hand-
kerchiefwith the
otherhand.'' Ap-
pearing, by Pass
4, to takethe pen-
ny in the right
hand, you open
that hand with a
quick motion to-
wards the hand-
kerchief, saying,
"Pass!" Theper-
son holding the
handkerchief
looses hishold, as
directed, when the two coins are heard to chink together,
as though the second coin had just arrived in the handker-
chief, and on examination they are, of course, found to be
those marked.
Wemay here describe anotherandstillneatermode (the in-
vention, webelieve ofM. Eobert Hudin) ofapparently wrap-
pinga coin securelyin ahandkerchief, thoughreallyonly cov-
ered byanouterfold.
Holdingthe coin upright betweenthefingersand thumb of
theleft hand, throw the handkerchief fairlyover it. Having
shown thatitis fairlycovered remark, "Butperhaps you may
fancyIhave changed the coin, Allowme to showyou that I
havenot."' With the right hand, palm upwards, takethe coin
t fi h r r st ou a g n h d t s h e e co h n a d nd fi k n e g r e c r h s ie o f f . th ( at as ha s n h d o . wn F i o n r Fi a g. m ), om b e e n tw t ee l n et t g h o e
withthe left hand (but without removing itfrom under the
handkerchief ), Tura oyer therighthand towards yourself,MODERN MAGIC. ^9
t a h n e d o a p g p a o i s n it s e ei e ze dg t e he of co t i h n e w c i o t i h n t t h o e t l h ef a t t h w a h n i d ch : b i u t t fi t rs h t is he t l i d m , e a n n i d p
through the double thickness of the handkerchief. Eemove
therighthand from the coin, andwith it raise the outer edge
ofthe handkerchiefand show the coin, asintheFig. Thenlet
the edges ofthehandkerchieffall. Apparentlythe coin is un-
derneath and in the centre ofthehandkerchief butin reality
it is outside, lyingina slightfold onthe side ;away from the
spectators.
The above description sounds intricae, but, if carefully fol-
lowed with the coin and handkerchiefwill be found perfectly
simple in practice. It isworth while taking some pains to ac-
quirethis sleight as it is ofgreatvalue in coin tricks.
TO PULIi FOUR QUAKTEES OE HALF-DOLLAES THEOUGH A
HANDKEECHIEF.
You begin byborrowingfourmarkedhalfdollars or quarters
or penny-pieces, anda silkorcambric handkerchief. You then
requesttheassistance ofavery strong man. This gives an
opportunity foralittle fun in the selection. Having at last
found avolunteer to your liking, youseat him on a chair
facing the company, then spreading the handkerchief on30 MOBEEN MAGIC.
youf left palm, then immediately placing the foui*
coins upon it you close your hand upon them through
the handkerchief,, and hand them to him, requesting him
to hold themfirmly. Then, asifsuddenlyrecollectingyour-
self,you say, "Pardon me, I have omitted one little detail
whichis ratherimportant. Oblige me with the handkerchief
again for one moment, if yon please. Iought to have
shown the company that there are no holes in it" (The
last sentence should not be pronounced until you have
gained possession of the handkerchief, as the company
might possibly declare themselves satisfied of the facij
without examination, which wouldnot.answer your purpose.)
Thehandkerchiefbeing returned to you, youspread it out to
show thatitis freefrom theholes, comingamongtheaudience
to do so, and appearing to lay great stress upon the fact.
Again spreading it overyour left hand, you count the coins
o pa n n e y b , y y o o n u e s u ay p , o a n s i y t o;u th q e u n ic g k i l v y in r g et a ur g n l t a o nc y e ou r r ou p n l d atf a o t rm t , he * c ' o Y m o - u
haveall seen thatthe four coins are fairly wrapped in the
handkerchief" ormake any otherremarkin orderto drawthe
general attention, asasharp, quickremarkalmostalwayswill,
toyour face and away from your hands. Atthesamemoment
youmovethe leftthumb over the face of the coins, tbeerby
coveringthem with a fold of the handkerchief,^andseizethem,
through thefold thus made, between the thumb and fingers
of the right hand, as indicated in Fig., immediately with-
drawing the left hand. The coins will now be held in the
right hand, the handkerchief hanging down loosely around
them, To any one who has not watched your movements
with more than ordinary vigilance, it may appear that the
coins arewithin and underthe handkerchief, thoughtheyare,
inreality, wrapped in anexternal fold. Giving them atwist
roundin thehandkerchief, you hand it the person assisting
youyou, asking him to say whether :;he money is still there,
towhich he naturally applies in theaffirmative. You then tell
himto grasp thehandkerchiefwith both hands three or four
inches belowthe coins, and hold as tightlyas he possibly.
Placing yourwand under yourright arm, and taking hold of
thecoins(throughthehandkerchief)with both hands,theright
hand undermost, you begin to pull against him, making a
show ofpulling with greatforce, and remarking that you are
very gladitis not your handkerchief, that you should not
havethoughthe was so strong, etc. Meanwhile, and whilethe
company are enjoying the discomfiture of the owner of the
handkerchief, you -jintwistthe latterandsecretly get themon-
ey outof the fold intoyourright hand, and palm it therein.
Giveone lastpullwith your lefthand, and let go smartly, ob-
seryingthatyoufearyou mustgiveitupaa^ownyourselfcon-MODliKN MAGIC.
^1
a q p ue p r e e a d r . nat T u a r k a e l y fo o r n y r o w u an to d k i e n e y p o t u h r at ri h g a ht nd ha c n lo d se ; d t , hi8 an w d ill wi m ll ake ma i - t
tertally aid in concealing the fact that the money is therein.
Your antagonist, orthe spectators for him, will by this time
have discovered thatthemoneyhasvanished but you pretend
to be un ; conscius of the
fact, and request him to
give itback, that you may
return it to the owners.
He naturally declares that
he has notgot it. With
all the seriousness that
yon can command, you
insistthathe has it, and
t O h n at hi h s e co m n u l s iT t iii r e e d sto d r e e ni i a t l .
yonsuggest thathe should
search his pockets, which
youtap, oneafteranother,
with your wand, each
giving a metallic soundas
ifcontaining money; but
the coins are still not to
be found. At last, after
allhis pockets have been
tried in vain, yon, as if
upon a sudden tliought,
tap the leg of his trousers, the metallic clink still following
every tap of the wand till you have nearly reached his feet,
when you exclaim, Yes, thereitis. Will you have thekind-
ness to putyourfooton thatchair?" He does so, and quickly
transferringyonvwand totheleft hand, with the lingers of the
rightyou turnnip the edge ofthe trouser, giving at the same
time, aslight shake, whenthe four coins are seen to fall out,
tothe great surprise ofthe victim.
This effect is produced as follows : The coins being in your
righthand, you introduca them with the second, third and
fourth fingers under the edge ofthe trouser then, with the
firsrfinger and thumb which areleft outside, ; you nip them
through the cloth, and holding them an instant till you have
withdrawnthe remaining fingers, whenwith a slightshakeyou
letthem fall.
The metallic chink on tappingthe pockets may be produced
in twoways. One method is to use a hollow metal wand,
japanned to vaatch the one ordinarly used, and containing
throughout its length a loose piece of thick wire, which,
striking against the sides of the tube, exactly imitates the
chink of money. The other mode is to use merely the orMODEBN magic;
dinary wand, allowing the end which you hold to the chinfc-
againstthe moneyheld in thesame hand. With alittle prac-
tice the effectisequallydeceptivewith the specialwand.
TO MAKE A MARKED DIME VANISH FROM A HANDKEECHIEF, AND
BE FOUND IN THE CENTRE OF AN APPLE OE OEANGE
PEEVIOUSIiT EXAMINED.
Have ready, concealed in eitherhand, a dime of your own,
with a little wax smeared on "one side of it. Roll another
minute portion ofwaxinto around ball halfthe sizeofa pep-
percorn, and press tightly upon the lowest button of your
waistcoat, sothatyou may be able to find it instantly when
wanted. You mustalso haveat hand an ordinary full-sized
table-knife and a plate oforanges.
Youbegin by borrowing a dime (requesting the owner to
mark it and a handkarchief. You spread the handkerchief
flaton table, with its sides square with those of the table.
Then standing behind your table, you place ostensibly the
borrowed dime, butreally yourown (with the waxed side up),
in the centre of the handkerchief, thenfoldover the corners,
oneby one, beginning with one ofthosenearestto yourself, in
such manner thateach shall overlap the dime by about an
inch,gently passing each corner as you fold it down. ~ Ask
some onetocome forward, and ascertain by feelingthe hand-
kerchief, thatthe dimeis reallythere. Then offer aknife for
inspection, and after all are satisfied that it is without pre-MODEEN MAGIC. 33
paration, hand the plate of oranges to be examined in like
manner, requesting the audience to choose one for the pur-
pose of the trick. While tliey do so, your fingers go in
search of the little ball of wax, and press itagainst one side
of the marked dime, which still remains in your hand.
Press the dime against one side of the blade of the knife,
at about the middle of its length, and lay the knife on the
table, the dime adhering to its under side. Then taking
hold of the handkerchief, as represented in Fig., and blow-
ing on its centre, draw the hands quickly apart. The two
corners of the side next to you will then be brought one
into each hand, and adhering to one of them (the one
you firstfoldeddown), willbe the substitute dime,whichwill
thus appear to have vanished. Hand the handkerchief for
examination, that it may be seen that the coin has really
disappeared, and meanwhile get rid of the substitute into
yourpocket or elsewhere. Turn upyour sleeves, and show
thatyourhands areempty Thentake up the knife (taking
careto keep the side on w . hich the dime is away from the
spectators), and cut open the orange. Cut about half way
downwith thepoint, andthen finish the cut by drawing the
whole length of theblade through the opening thus made.
This will detach the dime, which will fall between the
two halvesoftheorange, asthough ithad all along been con-
tainedtherein, Wipe itwith the handkerchief to remove
a th n e y j w n a ic x e w o h f i t c h h e m or a a y ng s e til f l r a o d m he it r , e a t n o d it a , t a t n h d e h s a a n m d e it t f i o m r e id r e u n b tif o i f - f
cation.
THE ANIMATED COIN, WHICH ANSWERS QUESTIONS, ETC.
This trickisperformed in avariety ofdifferent ways, some
with apparatus, some without. The effect produced is as
follows :—Theperformerborrowsa coin, and, after making a
fewmesmericpassesover it, drops it into a glass upon the
tablewhere itimmediatelybegins tojumpabout as if a live.
Theperformer tlipn announces thatthe cointhus mesmerized
hasthe power of forf-une-telling. naming chosen cards, pre-
dicting thenumVer thnt willbe thrown byapairof dice, etc.
Thecoin answers "Yes" by jumping three times, "No" by
jumping once—nccordiug to theapproved spiritualistic code of
signals. We shall not stay to discuss the questions asked,
which areofthe same class asthose whichare generallyputto
theMagicBell orDrum,but proceed at once to explain the
thevariousmodes ofproducing themovementofthe coin.
Oneplan isfortheperformer to have a coin of his own, to
whichis attached along black silk thread, the other end of
which isin thehand ofan assistantbehindthe scenes, orelse-34 MODEEN MAGIC.
where outofsight ofthe audience. This coinisplaced on the
tableinreadiness, butconcealedfrom thespectators by some
largerobjectinfrontofit. "When theperformer advances to
the table with theborrowed coin, he secretly picksup the pre-
pared one, and drops the latterinto the glass as being that
which he borrowed. A short, quickjerk ofthethe thread by
the assistant will make the coin spring up and fall back
again, producing the required chink. Itis only necessary to
becareful nottojerk the thread so violently as to make the
coinflyout ofthe glass. Itis desirable, where practicable, to
make the threadpass either through ahole in the top of the
table, oraringfixed to its surfaceandplacedimmediately be-
hind the glass. This will keep that portion of the thread
nearest to the glassperpendicular behind it, in which position
itwill be completely hidden bythe glass, and so beinvisible.
Some performers preferto usethe actual coin borrowed. The
arrangementsin this casearethesameas above described, save
that thesilk thread,instead of
having a substitute coin at-
tached to it, has merely a.
pellet ofwaxatits end. The
performer having handed
roundtheglass forinspection,
andstanding in front of the
table with his leftside turned
towards the audience, picks
up a pellet of wax with his
right hand at the same mo-
ment that, holding the bor-
rowed coin in his left hand,
hebegsthe spectatorsto take
especial notice that he really
uses the borrowed coin, and
noother. Having saidthis, he
transfers the coin, by a per-
fectly natural movement, to
his right hand, and pressing
againstthewaxenpellet, drops
it into the glass.
Thethirdand last mode of
performing the trick is by
meansofa special glass, with
hole drilled through its foot.
____ T pe h d i e s st is al pl (s a e c e ed Fig o . n ), a in su w i_t h a i b c l h e
works uu nnd down a steel needle, forming the upper portion
o w f it a h k g i r n e d en of b l a o i o z s e, e p a i l s l t o o w n i , ng a. ft- T ee he pas t s o a p g- o te ft t h o e t p h e e des n t e a e l d ^ l i e s , co w v h e i r c e h dMODEKN MAGIC
when pushed upward strikes the coin frombelow, with much
thesame effect as the thread pulling it from above. This
pedestalisonly availablewith one of the mechanical tables
whichwill be described in connection with " stage tricks."
Suchtablescontain, amongother contrivances, whatarecalled
"pistons," being smallmetal.rods,which, by pulling astring,
aremadeto risevertically an inch orso above the surface of
thetable, sinking downagainas soonas the cord is released.
The pedestal is placed immediately aboveone ofthese, whose
movementisin turn communicatedto theloose piston in the
pedestal, and thence to the coin.
It only remains tobestated how the necessary knowledge
fo . rthe answersis communicated to the person who controls
themovements of thepiece. With respect to chosen cards,
thecardsare eitherindicated bythewordingofthe questions,
orare agreed on beforehand, the performer taking care to
" force" the right ones. Theassistant is enabled to predict
the throw ofthedicebythe simpleexpedientofusing asmall
boxwoodvase, in whichthereare two compartments, in one ef
which a pairof dice (apparently the same which have just
been dropped inhaphazard from thetop) havebeen arranged
beforehand forthe purposeofthe trick. The ordinaryfortune-
telling questions, as to "Which young lady will be married
l " ir W st hi ? c ' h "W ha h s ic m h ost s s p w e e n e d t s hea m r o t s s t ?" t a i n m d e so at on, he a r re lo e o i k t i h n e g r - a g n l s a w s e s r ? - "
edin accordance withthe previousarrangement, or according
tothefancy ofthemoinent. Of course, where a question ot
thiskindisasked, theperformertakes care to follow up the
question by designating anumber of persons in succession,
so thatamere "Yes" or "No" maybeasufficientanswer.
THE MIRACULOUS CASKET.
This is aneatleather-or velvet- covered box, about three
inches by two, and two and a half high. When opened, it
is seen to be filled with a velvet cushion or stuffing, after
the manner of a ring-case, with lour slits, each just large
enough to admitahalf-dollaror dime. (;SeeFig.) " Byan in-
genious mechanical arrangement in the interior, which it
wouldtake too much space to describe at length, each time
the box is closed oneofthecoinsis madeto drop down into
the lower part, and onthe box being reopened is found to
have been vanished.
Thecasket maybe used inmany trickswith good effect. In
c e o m m p b l i o n y a e t d io a n s w fo i l t l h ow t s he : — ma T g h i e c f g o l u a r ss, co l i a n s s t w a h b i o c v h e h d a e v s e cri b b e e e d n , i s t ub i - s
stituted for the genuine ones are placed, insight ofall, in the
magic casket, which is thenclosed, andhanded toone of the)
36 MODEKN MAGIC.
audience to hold. The performerthen statesthathe is about
to order thefourcoinsnowinthe casketto pass one by one
into the glassuponthe table.
"One!" he exclaims. Acoin
isheardto fallinto the glass.
The person who holds the
casketis requested to open
it ; three coinsonly are left.
It is again closed, and the
performer says, "Two!"
Again thechinkofthefalling
coin is heard, and another
coin is foundto have disap-
peared from the casket. The
operation isrepeated till all
have vanished, and* the
operator pours fourth from
the glass four coins, which,
on examination, are found to
bethesamewhichwere originally borrowed, and which the
audiencebelievethatthey saT^^ placed inthe casket.
Thecasketmayalso be used with capital effect in conjunc-
tionwith
THE HAJLF DOLLAR WAND.
Thisisawand, apparently of ebony, but really of brass,
japannedblack. Itis abouttwelveinchesinlength, and five-
eighths ofaninch in diameter. On one side of it, and so
placed as to bejustunderthe thumbwhen thewand isheld in
the hand, isalittle stud, which moves backwardsand forwards
fora short distance (about an inch and a quarter), like the
sliding ring ofa pencil-case. Whenthis stud is pressed for-
ward, ahalf-dollarmaybe, appearson the opposite end ofthe
wand (seeFig., retiringwithin it when the studis again drawn
back. Thehalf-dollar is agenuine one, butis cut into three
portions, as indicated in Fig,, which represents a transverse
section ofit atrightangles to the actual cuts. Each of the
three segments is attached to a piece of watch-spring, and
from the direction ofthe cuts it is obvious that, when these
pieces ofwatch-springare pressedtogether (as they naturally
arewhen drawn back into thewand), cwill be drawn behind,
an T d h a e i w n a f n ro d nt is o u f s &. eda (i s Se f e o F ll i o g w.s : — The performer palms in his
lefthand as many half-dollarsashe intendsto produce. Then
taking thewandinthe righthand, and lightly touching with
itthespotwhencehe desires to (apparently) produce a half-
dollar, he pushes forward thestud, and the split coin appears
on the opposite end ofthe wand. He now draws the upper.
MODEKN MAGIC. 37
partofthe wand throughthe lefthand, at the same moment
pressing back the stud, and causing the split coin to
retire within thewand, immediatelyhandingfor examination
with the left hand one of the half-dollars already placed
there, and whichby this gesture heappearsto havejust taken
from thetop ofthewand. Tliis is again repeated, andanother
half-dollar exhibited, till the stock in the left hand is ex-
hausted.
Itisdesirable, on eachoccassionofpressingforwardorwith-
drawingthe stud, to place the opposite end of the wand in
such asituation asto bealittleshielded from the eyes of the
spectators, so thatthey may notsee the actual appearance or
disapperance ofthe coin. A very slight "cover will be suf-
ficient. Theendofthewand
may beplaced withina per-
son's open mouth (andwith-
drawn with the hat-dollar
thereon), within a pocket,
orthe like. Where no such
cover is available, a quick
semi-circular sweep should
be made with the wand as
the coinsare produced or
withdrawn
"Withthe aid of this wand
the passageofthe four half-
dollarsfromthecasketto the
glass, just described, be-
comes still more effective.
The four substitute half-
dollars have been placed in
the casket, andthe latterclosed, the performerannounces that
hewillwithdrawthem visibly, oneby one, and will then in-
visibly pass theminto the glass. Further, to prove that the
trickisnot performed byany mechanical or physical means,
hewill not eventakethe casketin hishand, butwillwithdraw
thecoinsone by one with his wand, thence pass them direct
iTitothe glass. Touching the casketwith thewand, he presses
thestud, and showsthe half-dollar on the end. Apparently
takingoff"thecoin withhislefthand, asbefore described (the
liand, however,beingin this case empty), hemakesthe motion
ofthrowingthecoin fromthehandtotheglass, saying, "Pass!"
Thesound ofafailing coin is heard (as already explained),
and he shows thathishandis empty, the sameprocess being
repeated astotheremainingcoins.38 MODERN MAGIC.
THE SHOWEE OE MONEY.
The magicalplienomenon knownunder this name surpasses
tliephilosopher's stone, in thepursuit ofwhichso many ofthe
wise men of old expended their lives and fortunes. The
alchemist's secretaimed only byproducing the raw material,
bat themagician'squickeyeand ready handgatherfromspace
j
j
e
u
c
o
t
ne
t
y
o
r
t
e
h
a
e
d
s
y
a
c
m
o
e
ine
d
d
r
.
awb
U
a
n
c
f
k
ort
a
u
s
n
t
a
h
t
e
ely
m
,
or
t
e
he
an
e
c
x
ie
p
n
e
t
ri
p
m
r
e
o
n
c
t
ess
i—s s
vi
u
z
b
,
-
,
tint each twenty shillings produced cost precisely twenty
shillings, leaving hardly .sufficient profit to make this form of
money-making renunierative as h commercial undertaking.
Theeffectofthe trick isas follows :- The perfoimerborrows
a hat, which heholdsin bis left hand. Turning up hissleeves,
heannounces that he requires a certain number, say ten,
dimes or half-dollars. The spectators put their handsin their
pockets with the idea of contributing to the supposed loan
butthe professor, anticipating their intentions, says, "No,;
thank yon ; I wont't trouble you this time. There seems to
be a good deal of money about to-night; I think Iwillhelp
myself. See, here is ahalf-dollars hanging to the gaselier.
Hereisanother climbing up the wall. Here is another just
settlingonthis lady's hair. Excuse me, sir, but you have a
half-cdoUar in your whiskers. Permit me, madam you have
justplaced your footon another," and soon. At each; supposed
newdiscovery the performer takes with his right hand from
someplace where thereclearly was nothingan instant before,
a,half-dollar, which he drops intothehatheldin hislefthand,
finallyturning over thehat, and pouringthe coins from it, to
showthatthere has been " no deception."
Theexplanation is very simple, the trick being' merely a
practicalapplication of "palming," tlionghits effect depends
on themanner and address ofthe operator even more than on
his skill in sleight-of-hand. The performer provides himself
beforehand withten half-dollars. Of these he palms two in
his right hand, and the remainder in his left. When he
takesthe hat, he holds it in the left hand, with, the fingers
insideand the thumb outside, in which position it is com-
paratively easyto the drop the coins one l.y one from the hand
intothe hat. When he pretends to see the first half-dollar
floatingin the air, he lets one of the coins in his right hand
drop tohis finger-tips, and, making a clutch at the air, pro-
ducesitasifjust caught. This firstcoin he really does drop
into the hat, taking care that all shall see clearly that he
doesso. He then goes through asimilar process with the
second ; but whenthe time comes to drop it into the hat, he
merely pretends to do so, palming the coinquicklyin theright
hand, andatthe samemomentlettingfallinto thehat one ofMODERN MAGIC. 39
thecoins concealedinhis left hand. The audience, hearing
the sound, naturally believe it to be occasioned by the fall of
the coin theyhavejustseen. The process is repeated untilthe
coins in the lefthand are exhausted. Once more theperform-
erappears toclutchacoin from space, and showingforthe last
time that which has all alongbeen in his right hand, tosses
into the air, andcatches itvisiblyin thehat. Pouringoutthe
coins on atray, orinto the lap ofone of the company, he re-
quests that theymay be counted, when they arefoundto cor-
respond withthe number which he has apparently collected
from the surroundingatmosphere.
THE EGG AND THE HANDKEKCHIEF.
Forthiscapitalfeat, which is generally identified with the
name ofColonel Stodare, the followingare the requirements
:
•^Aglass goblet, two small handkerchiefs (generally of plain
crimsonsilk,— and about sixteen inches square), a larger silk
handkerchief to which is attached, by a—silkthread ofabout
fourinches in length, a blown egg-shell andahollow metal
egg made of zinc, enamelled white, with an ovalopeningon
one side of it measuring about an inch and a half by one
inch, or a little more.
The performer comes forward, having in his right hand
the goblet and oneofthered silkhandkerchiefs. The larger
Jsilkhandkerchiefis thrown with apparent carelessness over
theotherhand, and upon itreststheblownegg, so placed that
thethread maybe outofsight, whilebeneath the egg, conceal-
edinafold of the handkerchief, liesthesecondred handker-
chief, rolled upinto asmallcompass as possible. The metal
eggis, meanwiiile, placed inthe left-handsecretpocketof the
performer, whointroducesthe trickasfollows
:
"Ihavehere,
ladiesand gentlemen, a drinking-glass, a couple of silkhand-
kerchiefs, and an egg, all, as you will perceive, ofthe mostor-
dinary description." He passes quicklyinfront of the audi-
ence, asthough tendering the articlesfor examination (taking
care, however, to keep his right arm advanced towards the
spectators, so that the glass and smallsilk handkerchief may
bear thebrunt ofinspection), andfinally places theglass and
smallhandkerchiefonatable or chair in full view. " Pray
observe," he continues, "thatnot one ofthearticlesis removed
from your sight, evenfor one moment. Now, please follow
me closely. Iwill piacethe egg in theglass, and coveritover
with this handkerchief." This he does by one movement, for
as the eggis already lying on thehandkerchief,amere turnof
the wristplaces the egg in the glass, and at the same time
letsfallthe handkerchief over it ; and at the same time the
smaller handkerchief, which was concealed in the larger, ig40 MODEBN MAGIC.
released, and falls into the rl^ss with the egg. "You have
all seen me place the egg in the glass" (at the same time
shaking the glass, toshowby the soundthat the egg is still
there), " whichIwill not again touch, I shall now take this
small handkerchief (the one which has remained on the
table), "and standingas tar as possible away, I shall com-
mand the handkerchief to dissolve and pass into the glass,
and the eggwhichis now in theglassto come into my hands."
Sosaying, he holdsup thehandkerchief, in such manner as
to showindirectly that he has nothing in his hands. Taking
afewsteps, as though merely to get further from the glass,
and holding the handkerchief hanging down between the
finger and thumb of the right hand, he drops the other
hand tohis side, and secretely takes from his pocket the
hollow egg, whichhe palms, keeping the opening outwards.
Hethen, standingwith his left side towards the spectators,
joinshis openhands
as inFig., thehand-
kerchief hangi ng
down between them,
Eequestingthe audi-
ence to watch him
narrowly, that they
may be quite sure
that there is no de-
ception, he begins to
wave his joined
hands slowly up and
down, the second
and third fingers of
the right hand
(which, it will be
remembered, is
away from the
audience) mean-
while gradually _
working the handkerchiefinto thehollowofthe egg. Heevery
nowand then pauses, toshowthatthe handkerchiefisgradual-
ly diminishing, and atlast, when it iswholly worked into the
egg; opens his hands, and shows the egg lying in his palm,
takingcare, ofcourse, thatthe opening is undermost. To all
appearance, the handkerchiefhas changed into an egg. "Here
h w is a i s t t h h o e t b h e e e g y g e o , d " pe m h n e y in r b g e i m d d a d o r i w k n n s g w . a ;" r " d l s S e , o t u n s s p a o y s i n e n e g t , i h f e h t t e h a e bl l e h a , y a s n a d n t k d h e e r t c a h k eg i i g n e , g f h s a o t l l i s l d o l
with the lingerand thumb ofthehandkerchief which covers
theglass, lifts itdaintlyup, carryingwith it, concealed in its.
MODERN MAGIC. 41
folds, the egg-shell attachedthereto, andleavingthe duplicete
red handkerchieflyingin the glass
Itmay sometimes, though not very often, occurthatone or
otherofthe spectators, suspecting some pecaliarity about the
egg, mayask to bepermitted to examine it. This, of course,
you cannot permit, while to refuse would destroy half the
prestige ofthe illusion. Fortunately, thereis away out ofthe
diflfl-cultywhich absolutely enhances theeffectofthe trick.
It " is Y a o s u pe w c o ia u l ld fe l a i t k u a re to of se m e y th e e nt e e g r g, t " ai y n o m u en r t ep t l h y at ; al " l b a y '^i a t l i l cl m es ea u n s s e . d
therein will bearthe strictest examination. Here is the egg.
Duringthese few words, you have taken up the shamegg with
the fingers of yourrighthand, taking care, ofcourse, to keep
the openingaway from the audience, and have thence ap-
parently transferred It to your left, with which handyou offer
itto thetoo curious spectator. It is hardly necessary to re-
mark, that inthe apparent transferofthe eggto the lefthand,
y th o e u l h ef a t ve ha r n e d all t y o t p h a e lm sp e e d ct i a t to i r n , yo y u o r u ri q g u h i t et ; ly an d d ro a p s i y t ou fro e m xte t n h d e
rightinto thepochetteon that side. The inquirer holds out
hishand to receive it. *' Prayexamine it closely," you say,
opening your empty hand over his own. "What you have
!
n I o a t lw g a ot ys it fi ? nd Ah t , ha t t ha th t is is e y x o p u e r r f i a m u e l n t t; y m o a u ke w s ere th n e ot eg q g uic e k xc e e n ss o i u v g e h l . y
volatile.' This unexpected denouement never fails to raise a
laughagainstthe individual who sought to embarrass you,
whiletheimpromptu disappearanceoftheeggwill be regarded
by manyas the most marvellous portion of the trick. The
sameexpedientwill be equally available to prevent the ex-
amination, atan awkward moment, ofother small articles.
THE BIRDCAGES FROM THE HAT.
Notcontentwith cannon-balls, drums, and ladies' reticules,
thepublicofthe present dayrequires thatbirdcagesandliving
birds should be produced from an empty hat.
The birdcages used vary in their construction. Some are
madetofitonewithin the other, andare liftedoutby thesolid
andnottheloose ends, which fall down of their own accord.
Thosein most generaluse, however, are about six inches in
height, by five in breadth and depth. The bottom is made to
slide upwards on the upright wires which form the sides.
When itis desired to prepare the cage foruse, acanaryis first
placedtherein, and the bottom is then pushed up as far as it
will go, the slides, which workonhinges being folded one by
oneupon the bottom, the cage finally assuming a flat shape.
Itisinthis condition thatthecages, generally three in num-
ber, areintroducecl iatothe the hat, eitherfrom thesewanteor42 MODERN MAGIC.
f in r g om o i u n t si ( d w e h t i h c e h ve i s s t d o o f n t e he by per t f he or w m i e r r e ; l a o n o d p i a n t t t o h p e ), ac t t he of si li d f e t s -
and bottom falling down, the cage becomesfull size.
THE WELSH KABBIT.
This is atriclsofacommoncharacter, andin the hands of a
spirited performerissureto be received with applause, par-
ticularlyby th—e youngermembersof the audience. Its effect
isasfollows : The performer bringsin onehanda saucepan,
fancifully decorated, and in the othera plate, with bread,
cheese, pepper, etc. With these ingredients he proposes to
make a WelshBabbit, and to givetheaudience, without extra
charge, alesson in cookery. Chopping thebread and cheese
togetherin a burlesque fashion, and seasoning with pepper
and salt to a degree which no palate shortof a salamanders
could possibly stand, he shovels all into the saucepan, and
clasps the lid on. Fora momentheisat a lossfora fire, but
thisdifficulty is quicklyconquered. Borrowingagentleman's
hat, anda lady's pocket-handkerchief, he requests permission
touse them forthepurposeoftheexperiment. This isreadily
accorded,but therespectiveownerslookonwithconsternation
when the performerproceedstoset fire to the handkerchief,
and, dropping it
still blazing into
the hat, to cook
theWelsh Babbit
by moving the
saucepan to and
froovertheflames.
Having done this
for a minute or
two, he extin-
guishes the flames
by lowering the
saucepan for a
moment into the
hat. Then again
removing it, and
takingoffthe lid,
he brings it for-
ward to the com-
pany, and ex-
hibits, not the ex-
pected WelshBabbit, or " rare-bit,"but a genuine live rabbit,
everyvestige ofthecheese and other ingredients having dis-
appeared.
Thesecretofthisingenious trick lies mainly in the con-MODERN MAGIC. 43
•
stnictionof theBaiicepan, whichconsists offour parts, desig-
natedinthe diagram by theletters a, &, c, and ; aisthe lid,
whichhas no speciality, save that the rim round it is rather
deeperthan nsual ; b is a shallow tray or lining, of the same
depth as the lid, fitting easily within the top of the sauce-
p of an th ; e a, sa o u n ce t p h a e n, co a nt n r d ar h y, as fi n t o s t s i p g e h c t i l a y li w t i y th ; ii d \ i h s ; an c out t e h r e s b h o e d e y t
or covering, loosely fitting the lower part of the saucepan,
and, likeit, is japanned plain black, the upperpart and lid
being generally of an ornamental pattern. (For our part,
we much prefer either plain black or polished tinthroughout,
assavouring less of mechanism or preparation.) Thepresence
orabsenceofd doesnot alter the general apl^earance of the
saucepan, and cannot, therefore, be detected byany one. It
shouldbementioned thatd is so made, thatbetween its bot-
tom and the bottom ofthe saucepan isabout half an inch in
depth, and in thisspace, beforetheapparatus is brought for-
ward, isplaceda substitute handkerchief, sprinkled with a
fewdropsofspirits ofwine or eau de Cologne, to render it
r m a o b r bi e t, in a f f l te a r mm w a h b i l c e h; h w i i s th p i u n t t i h n e i s t a s uc pl e a p c a e n , i a s n p d la p c r e e d ss a ed sm d a o l w l n l . ive
Theperformer isnow ready tobeginthe trick. He brings
forward the saucepan, placingiton the table, he mixes the
bread, cheese, etc., on a plate, and then pours all into the
saucepan, where, ofcourse, they fallfnto&. As 6 is compara-
tivelyshallow, itis well to place the saucepan in some tolera-
bly elevated situation so that the audience may not be able
to see into it, or they may perceive that the, bi-f^ad, etc., do
not fall to the bottom. The lid is next placedon the sauce-
pan. The hat and handkerchief are borrowed, the latter,
which is to serve as fuel, being dropped into the hat. The
performer, as if bethinking himself of a possible difiicultj^
carelessly remarks, "Wemustn'thave the stove too small for
thesaucepan;" and so saying, lifts the latter, andlowers itfor
amomentinto thehat, asthough testing their relative sizes.
Inthat moment, however, he relaxes the pressure of his
fingers on d, and so leaves itwithin thehat, fjlacing the sauce-
pan on the table besideit. When he again takes out the
(supposed)handkerchief, and sets lightto it, it is, of course,
the substitute that is actually bnrnt, the genuinehandkerchief
meanwhileremain hidden beneath d in the crown. The effect
oftheflames risingfromthe hat,inwhich theaudience cannot
suppose any preparation, isvery startling, andyet, unless the
substitutehankkerchiefis unusually large, or the spirit has
been applied with atoo liberal hand, there is noreal danger
ofinjuringthe hat. The performermovesabou the saucepan
abovetheblaze atsuch adistance asnotto inconveniencea ths
animalwithin, aftera momentortwo, bringsthesaucepan)
44 MODEKN MAGIC.
sharply down into thehat, for the ostensible purpose of ex-
tinguishingthe fiames, but in again liftingit out he brings
with itd, and places alltogetheron the table. Nothingisnow
leftin thehatbutthe borrowed handkeschief, which may be
restored in any manner which the performer's fancy may
suggest. Whenthelid ofthe saucepan is removed, as it fits
moretightlywithin hthan thelatter fitswithin the saucepan,
itnaturallycarriesbwith it, thus causing the disappearance
ofthe bread, cheese, etc., and revealing in its place the live
rabbit.
Somefun maybe c.ieatedby selectingbeforehand an assist-
antfrom the juvenile portionof the audience, and dressing
him up withapocket-handkerchiefround his head, and an-
otherbywayofapron, to act asassistant cook.
Asmall kitten may be substituted for the rabbit, the per-
formeraccountingforthe wrong animal being produced by
supposingthathe must havemade some mistake in mixing
theingredients.
J,HE WTZABD's OMLET. ( BORROWED RINGS AND LIVE DOVES PRO-
DUCED FROM AN omelet).
Thisis a trick which alwaj'^s produces a great sensation,
whetherperformed upon the stageorinthe drawing-room. Its
effectis as follows : The performer produces either naturally
ormagically ( from the eggbagorthe mouthofhis assistant,MODERN MAGIC. 45
three eggswhichhe handsround forinspection. Hisassistant
next borrowsfromtheaudience three ladie's rings, receiving
them, inordertoprove that he doesnottamperwith them in
any way, on the performer's wand instead of in his hands.
Thewand with the rings still upon it, is laid upon thetable.
Theassistant,nextbrings in an omeletpan, and places itwith
its lid besideit, onthe table. T — he performerbreaks theeggs
into it droppingin shells and all then pourssomespiritsover
it, to which hesets fire, andwhileit isstill blazingdrops the
rings from the wand into it. He brings itforM^ard to show
t t a h b at le th c e la r p i s n t gs he ar c e ov r e e r al o l n y i t n he th p e an f , la a m n e d s f ; i a re n s d a o p n is r t e o t l u ( r a n n i y ng or t d o in h a i - s
rypistol) overit. Withoutamoment's interval, he again re-
moves the cover. Alltraces ofthe omelet andegg.shells have
vanished, but in their -place are foundthree live doves, each
witha ribbon round itsneck, to whichis attached one of the
borrowed rings.
The explanation of this surprising resultissimplicityitself.
Thereader with hispresentknowledge, will readilj'-conjecture
t e h a a s t i , ly as gu t e o ss the th r e in m g a s n a n s e u r bs o t f it s u u t c e h is s e u f b f s e t c i t t e u d ti ; o b n u . t h I e t m wi a l y lb n e ot r s e o -
membered that therings were collected on the performer's
wand, bytheassistant. This arrangement, which isostensibly
adopted to prevent, in reality facilitatesan exchange. The as-
sistant makeshis collection with three dummyrings placed
beforehand onthe lowerend of thewand, and concealed by
thehandin which he holds it,whichwewillsuppose to bethe
right hand. Inreturningto the stage, hetakes hold with the
lefthand oftheoppositeendof thewand, andallows the bor-
rowedrings to run down intothat hand, atthe same moment
releasing the dummyrings from therighthand, and allowing
themtorun uponthe middle ofthewandinplaceoftheothers,
Henow has the borrowedrings in his left hand, and laying
w th i e th wa h n i d m w to it p h re t p h a e re s f u o b r st t i h t e ut d e e s nou o e n me t n h t et o a f bl t e he ) t c r a i r c r k i . es t ( hem off
The onlyothermatterwhich will require explanation is the
omeletpan. This is ashallow pan of brassortin, about ten
inches in diameter, bytwoandahalf in debth. Within this
is an innerpan, also of brassortin, fitting tightly within it,
butabout halfaninch less in debth. The lid is made with a
very deep rim orshoulderall round, and jnst fits within the
lining, though lesstightlythan the latter fitswithin the pan.
(SeeFig, in which arepresents the pan, h the lining, and cthe
lid.) The assistantassoonashegets behindthe scenes, loops
the borrowed rings to the ribbons, which are already tied
round theneckofthe three doves, and places thelatterin h,
immediately puttingon c (the two together having the ap-46 MODEEN MAGIC.
pearanceofasimplecover), andbrings forward the pan and
cover. The perforniernow makes his omelet, and drops the
substituteringsinto it. It bringing forwardthe pan to show
that the rings are really there, he takes care to avoid the
owners ofthem, who would alone belikelj^ to detect the sub-
stitution. Whenhe claps on the cover, the trick is really
done, the firing ofthepistol being merely for effect. When
thecoverisagain removed, the liningremainsin the pan, con-
cealingtheomelet beneathit, and revealing the doves, with
therings attachedto theirnecks.
THE EOSE IN THE GLASS VASE.
Theingenious pieceofapparatus which we are about to de-
scribewas, we believe, the invention of Eobert Houdin. It
consists ofaglassvase, on afoot, andwithaglasslid, standing
altogether eight to ten
inches in height. This
is placed on a square
boxlike plinth or pedest-
al, ofwood covered with
morocco, and measuring
about eight inches
square by six in height.
The lid is placed upon
the vase, which, being
transparent, is clearly
seen to be empty. A
borrowed handkerchief
is for a moment thrown
over the whole, and
again removed, when a
handsome rose (natural
or artificial) is seen to
have mysteriously found
i w t h s en w c a e y it int i o s t r he emo v v a e s d e , ;
and handed to the com-
panyforinspection.
' The secret ofthis mys-
— — terious appearanceistwo-
- =-:^f:nr fold, lying partly in the
vase and partly in the pedestal. The vase, which at a little
distance appears as simple and commonplace as any in a
confectioner's window, has a segment cut offone side, leav-
ing an opening of about five inches in height by three and
a half in width. {See Fig.) This opening is kept turned
away from the audience. The pedestal, like the vase, isMODEBN MAGIC. 47
closed on every side side except the side remote from the
spectators, which isopen. A curvedwire arm, with a " clip"
atthe end toreceive the stalkofthe rose, worksnp and down,
describingaquartercircle, in this open space. Aspringhinge,
onwhich this arm works, impels it to assume the position
shown in the figure, thus lifting the rose through the open-
ing into the vase. Theapparatus is set by forcing down the
arm with the rose into the position indicated by the dotted
lines, in v/hich position it is retained bya little catch, until
the performer, in the act of covering the vase with the
handkerchief, presses a stnd at the upper side of the pedes-
tal. This withdrews the catch, and allows the rose to rise
into the vase. Ofcourse, the performer in taking out the
flower does so fromthe top, and with properprecautionsnot
to disclose the existence of the opening at the back of the
vase.
The ingenuity of the reader will probably suggest to him
combinations to make the trick more effective. Tothose who
have have not such readyinvention, wemayremark that the
trick maybe very-effectively combined with that of the ball
that changes to arose, and viceversa, or duplicaterosemay be
placed in themouchoirdudiaUe, andthence ordered to pass to
to the vase.
THE CHINESE KINGS.
—
These arerings ofbrass orsteel, in diameter from five to
nineinches, andinthicknessvarying from a quarter to three-
eighths ofa — n inch. The effect ofthetrickto the spectator is
asfollows: The rings are given for examination, and found
tobesolid and separate butatthewill of the operator they
are linked together in ch ; ains oftwo, three, ormore, becoming
connectedand disconnected inamoment, andbeing continn-
allyofferedfor examination. Finally, aftertherings have be-
comeinvolved in an apparentlyinxetricable mass, a slight
shakesuffices to disentanglethem, and to cause them to fall
singlyupon the stage.
The sets ofrings sold attheconjuring depotsvary in num-
ber, varying from sixto twelve. The set of eight, which is
perhapsthe most usual number, consistsof one "key" ring,
two single rings, and asetoftwo linked together, and a set
of three linked together. The "key ring, in which lies the
secret ofthe trick, issimplyaringwitha cut oropeningin it.
For use upon a publicstage, wherethe performer is at a con-
siderable distance from his audience, theremay bea gap ofan
ei'fhtli ofan inch between the ends, but fordrawin'g-room use,
tbey shouldjusttouch each other. Some rings are made to
"(•lip" like an ear-ring, and some have theopening cut dia-48 MODERN MAGIC.
gonallyinstead ofsquare, butthe simple squarecutis, in our
own opinion, thebest.
We shall,in the first place, describe the trick as performed
withthesetofeightrings above mentioned. Wemustpremise,
however, thatthemanipulation ofthe rings admits of almost
infinite variation, and that the practice of performers differs
greatlyas to the mode ofworkingthem.
The performercomes forward holding the eight rings inhis
lefthand, arranged asfollows :—First (i. e., innermost), comes
i t n he th se e t h o a f n t d h ) r , ee th ; e t n he t n he the set " o k f ey t " wo rin a g n ( d th l e ast o l p y e , n t i h n e g t u w p o per si m n o g s l t e
rings. Takingthe firstof these, h ; e hands it to a spectator
for examination passingit whenreturned to another person,
andcarelessly ha;ndinga second ring to be examined in like
manner. This shouldbedonewithout anyappearance ofhaste
and with an airofbeing perfectly indifferentas to how many
oftherings are examined. The two "singles" having been
dulyinspected, the performer reqiiestsome of the spectators
totakethem bothin his righthand, at the same time taking
in hisown right hand thenexttworings, which, itwillbe re-
membered, are the setof two, though the audience naturally
believethem to be, like the first, separate.
"Now, sir," the professor continues, "will you be good
enough tolinkoneoftherings which youhold into theother."
The person addressed looks moreor less foolish, and finally
"givesit up." '-You can't?" says the performer, in pretend-
ed surprise. "My dear sir, nothingis easier. You haveonly
to do asIdo. See!" Laying down the rest of the rings, he
holds twoand makes agentle rubbing motion withthe thumb
uponthe rings, and then lets fall one of them, which naturally
dropsonthe other. Henow hands thesetworings for exami-
nation. The spectators seekfor some joint or opening, but
noneis found and meanwhile the performer transfers the
;
thenextring (the "key' to hisright hand, keeping the open-
ingunder the thumb. Henow takes backwith the left hand
the two single rings, immediately transferringoneofthem to
theright hand, and with the ball of the thumb presses it
through the opening in the keyring, intowhich it falls, with
exactly the same effect as the apparent joining of the two
linked rings a moment before. Again he separates andagain
joins the two rings. Thesecond single ring is now madeto
pass inlikemanner.
The performer remarks, ' Wenow have three joined to-
gether. Here are three more, as you see (shaking those in
the left hand), all solid and separate, and yet at my will
they will join like the others." Making a rubbing motion
with the thumb as before, he drops two of the three, one
by one, from the band, whea they will appear as a chainM0t>i:BN MAGIC. 4^
of three. These he hands for examination, taking back the
set of two, and linking them one after the other into the
key ring, to which now four rings are attacked. Again
taking back the set of three, he links these also oneby one
into the key ring, which thus has seven rings inserted in it.
Using both hands, but always keeping the opening of the
key ring under one or the other thumb, he now takes off
theseseven rings, commencing with the two single ones and
o t f w f o e . rin L g as t t h o e f m a f l o l r , h e e xam u i n n l a i t n i k o s n ; th t e he s n et tak o i f ng thr o e f e f , t a he nd se t t hen o , f
holding them at length in his left hand, joins the upper
one to the keyring, thus makingachain of four, of which the
keyringisthe uppermost. He nexttakes the lowermost ring
ofthefour, and links that into the key ring, bringingthe four
ringsinto a diamond shape. Again unlinking the lower riug,
hetakesuptheset oftwo, and connects them with the key
ring, holding themup above it,thus makingachain of six, the
keyringbeing third from the top. Taking the upperriug be-
tweenhistenth, he linksthe two single ringsinto the key ring
on eitherside, making the figureofa cross Asthehandsare
now occupied in holding the singlerings formingthe arms of
thecross, he can no long.er keep the opening of the key ring
concealedby the thumb, but it is extremely unlikely that
among so many rings, so slight amark in oneofthem will at-
tractnotice. Regaining possession ofthe key ring, he links
oneby one into it. Then, holding the key ring with both
hands, and with the opening downwards, abouta couple of
feetfrom the floor, heshakes the rings violently, at the same
time gently strainingopen the key ring, when thesevenrings
willallin succession drop throughthe slit, and scatter them-
selves about thefloor, thegeneralimpression being that they
allfell separate, though the grouped sets, of course, remain
still united.
Itisnot an uncommonthingto see aperformer commit the
gaucherie ofhandling allthe riugs, save only the key ring, to
b u e nd e e x r am th i e ne b d re i a n st th o e r f u i n rs d t e i r ns t t h a e n t c a e il ; o t f he th k e ey coa r t, in a g nd be b i e n i g ng h a i d d d d e e d n
to the set inreturning to the table. The spectators are thus
needlessly made acquainted with the fact that certain of the
rings are already linkedtogether, and this once admitted, the
trick loosesnine-tenths ofits effect,
THE BIRTH OP FLOWERS.
There aretwo or three different tricks which go by this
name. Ofone ofthemwe may disi)ose in a very few words.
Itis purely amechanical trick, having neither ingenuity of
constructionnor dexterity of manipulation to recommend it.50 MOi)EKH MAGIO.
Theapparatus consists ofacovera (seeFig., a basec, and aii
intermediate portion 6, connectedwithaby means of a bay-
onet-catch ; cisbeforehand partially filled with earth, and in
b, thetop ofwhichis perforatedwithsmallholes, is inserted a
naturalorartificialplant, orbouquetofflowers. The cover a
placed overh, and the apparatus is ready. The performer,
drawingattention to c, pretends tosowsomemagic seed there-
in. Hethen places aoverit, aud pretendingtowarm it with
his hands, commands the seeds to germinate. Keleasing the
bayonet-catch, heremovesthe cover, and shows theflowersap-
parentlyjust springingfromthe earth in e. In some of the
smaller sizesofthis apparatusthebayonet-catch is dispensed
with, themere pressore ofthefingerson the sides of a being
suf&cieutto liftofi"bwithit.
The trickwhichwe are now about to describe under the
sametitleis oneofacompositenature, andonewhich, proceed-
ingfrommarvel tomarvel, produces i
—
n good hands a great
efi'ect. It is dividedintotwo portions first, the production
ofasingleflower, thenofahandsomebouquet. The perform-
ercomesforwardwithhiswaad inonehand, and in theother
'
aItttlebox, inrealityquiteempty, but containing, as he as-
serts, magicseeds, capable of producing on the instant the
choicestflowers. "Iwill firstshow you, ladies and gentle-
men, theireffectinthesimplest form.
Inthehurry ofcoming here this evening, I omitted to pro-
videa flowerfor JOy buttoa-hole, Youwill see how easily,—
!
MODERN MAGIC. 51
bythe aid ofthe magic seed, I can supply the deficiency.
Whatshall it be? Clematis, rose, geranium ? Suppose we
say arose. Itake a single seed from my box ah, here is a
rose-seed—and place itin my button-hole." (He applies the
s t T h u h e p e p n o s e e s c e e e d d ss h s a a e r s e y d b w l t a o o r s m t s t h o h e m . e b d u , I tt w o y a n o - v u h e o s l m e e e y . , ) w in a t n " o d I a — b h r O a e n n a c t d e h s e o ! m o t e n wi r c t o e o se ! . s t " h u r p i p c l e y
The explanation of this pretty little trick is exceedingly
simple. The preliminary preparation is made as follows :
Throughthe centre of an artificial rose, with stalk, a short
piece (about ten inches) of thin black elastic is passed, and
secured by a knot on the inside of the flower. The other
end is passed through the button-hole (from the top out-
side), and thence through an eyelet-hole made for the pur-
pose in the breast of the coat, immediately underthe button-
hole. The extreme end is loo})ed over a button sewn on
the waistcoat about the region of the waistband. The ten-
ison of the elastic naturally draws the flower close against
the button-hole, while yet allowing it, when necessary, to be
drawn away from it to a distance of several inches. The
])erl'ormer, before coming forward to perform the trick,
draws therose away from the button-hole, and places it
under theleftarmpit, whence, so long as the arm iskept close
to the side, it cannot escape. "When he waveshiswand, with
the words, "Once, twice, thrice !" he makes the first motion
facingto the right, the secondfrontingthe audience, and the
third facing slightly to the left, at the same time striking the
bntton-hole with the w.md, and throwing up the left arm,
when theflower, released, instantly springsto thebutton-hole,
the slightturn to the leftcompletely covering the manner of
its appearance.
But the trick isnotyet over. You willnaturally say, ' Ah?
themagicseedmay be allvery well for a single flower, but
whatifyou wanted a complete bouquet?' I hastento show
you thatthis is equally within my power. Will some one
oblige mewith the loan ofahat by way of hothouse? Thank
you. Here, you observe, is an ordinary drinking-glass" (this
has, meanwhile, been placed on thetableby anassistant), "in
whichIwill drop, hsphazard, a pinch of the magic seed."
Thishe does with the lefthand, theright being occupiedwith
the hat^and then, withtheglass inthelefthandand the hatin
the right, comes forward to the audience, requesting a lady
spectatorto breathe upon the glass, which he immediately
afterwards coverswith the hat. He now requests the same or
anotherspectatortocount ten, to allowthemesmericinfluence
time to operate, and then, removing the hat, shows a hand-
somebouquet (natural or artificial) in the glass. Keturning
thehat, and handingtheglassand flowers for inspection, he52 MODERN MAGld.
borrowsasilkpocket-handkerchief, or, in defaultof prociirihg
one fromthe audience, uses one ofhis own, brought forward
bytheassistant. Drawing it ropewise through his hand to
show thatitis empty, he spreads itbefore him, holding itby
two ofits corners. Having exhibitedonesideofit, hespreads
theother, whenthe shape ofsomethingsolid isseen to define
itselfbeneathit, and the hanndkercliiefbeingremoved, alarge
roundbasketofflowers (see Fig.), ten ormoreinches in diam-
eterbytwo deep, isrevealed.
Thereader, with his present knowledge, willprobably have
alreadyconjecturedthe mode inwhichthebouquetisbrought
intotheglass. Itisbeforehand placedatthe lefthand corner
oftheservante,thestemslantingupwardsat anangle of about
45**. Whenthe performer, standing at theleft hand side of
thetable, dropsthe imaginaryseedintotheglasswithhisleft
hand, hisright, holding thehat, drops for a moment to the
thelevelofthetable, and clipsbetweenthe second and third
fingersthestem ofthe bouquet, when, bysimply bending the
fingers, thebouquetis broughtintothehat after the manner
ofacannon-ball. When the hatisplaced over the glass, the
bouquetisnaturally brouughtinto the latter.
Wemayhere mention thatthere arebouquetsofspecialand
ratheringenious construction, enablingthe performer, in the
act ofproducing thebouquetfromahatinthe above or any
similartrick, to causeitsuddenlyto expand to three or four
times itsoriginalsize. Thebouquet isinthis case is made of
artificial flowers, stitched on a framework forming a kind of
miniatare parasol, witha very short handle. The bouquet,
whenintroduced inty thehat, hasaslightly conical shape,but
theperformer inwithdrawing it puts up the parasol, so to
speak,- thereby spreading it to twelve or fourteen inches
diameter.
THE TLTING GLASS OF WATER.
Thiscapitaltrick was, we believe, first introduced to the
public by Colonel Stodare, to whom the profession is in-
debted formany first-class illusions. The necessary apparatus
consists of a couple of ordinary glass tumblers, exactlyalike,
withanindia-rubber cover just fitting the mouth of one of
them, and a colored handkerchief of silk or cotton made
double (Le., consistingoftwo similarhandkerchiefs sewn to-
getherat the edges), withawire ring (ofthesizeoftherim of
one ofthe tumblers, orafraction larger) stitched loosely be-
tween them, insuch amannerthatwhen the handkerchief is
spread outthe ringshall bein themiddle.
Theperformer, beforehand, nearly fillsone of the tumblers
withwater, and thenputs on the india-rubber cover, which,Modern magic.
fitting closely all round the edge, effectually prevents the
water escaping. The glass,thus prepared, he places in the
profiondeonhisrightside. Hethenbrings forward the other
glassand adecanterofwater, andthe prepared handkerchief,
andin fullview oftheaudience fills theglass with water up
tothesame height as he has already filled the one in his
pocket,andhandsroundglassandwaterforinspection. When
theyare returned, heplacesthe glass upon the table, a few
inchesfrom its hinderedge, and standing behindit, covers it
Withthehandkerchief, firstspreading out and showing both
sidesotthelatter, proving, to allappearance, that there is no
preparation aboutit. In placing 'the handkerchief over the
glass, hedrawsitacrossin suchamannerastobring the hid-
denringas exactlyas possible over thetop oftheglass. Then
placingthe left hand over the handkerchief, he raises ap-
parently, theglass 'within the handkerchief, but really the
empty handkerchiefonly, whichiskeptdistended bythering,
and, atthesametime, undercoverofthe handkerchief, gently
lowerstheglass ofwaterwith the otherhand ontotheservants
Thisis by nomeans difficult, as the pretended carefulnessof
theoperator notto spill thewaterallows him tomake the up-
wardmovementofthelefthand as deliberate as he pleases.
All thatis really necessaryis to take caretofollow withhis &yeS
themovementoftheUfthand, which will infallibly drawthe eyes
and mindsof the audience in the same direction. Having
raised thesupposed tumbleraheightof about two feet from
the table, theperformer brings forward to the audience, and
requeststhat somegentleman with a steady hand will favor
himwith hisassist-ence. Avolunteerhavingbeen found, and
having given satisfactory replies as to the steadiness of his
nerves, and the strenth of his constitution generally, is re-
quested toplacehishand underthe handkerchiefandtakethe
glass. Asheproceedsto obey, the performer lets go of the
handkerchiefwith the lefthand, still retainingonecornerwith
theright, andlets the rightarm with the handkerchief drop
tohisside. Pretending to believe that the gentleman has
takentheglass, and nottonoticeits disappearance, he turns
carelessly aside, and brings forward a small table or chair,
saying, "Putithere, please." Looking, generally, somewhat
foolish, thevictim replies thathe has not got it. If the per-
former isa good actor, he may here make some fun by pre-
tending to belief that the victim has concealed the glass,
and pressing him to return it. At last ha says, "Well, if
youwont give it to me, I must find it for myself," and he
proceeds totap with his wand the sleeves and pockets of the
individual, butwithoutsuccess, till, on touching him between
the shoulders, he pretendstotellby thesound that the glass
is there. "Yes, hereitis," he remarks, «Iam sorry to behi t>ABLOUAND STAGfil MAQid.
obliged toa(5k youto turn j'ourbackon the company, but i6
showthem that there no deception on my part, I am com-
pelled to do so. Willyoupleaseturnroundforone minute."
On his doing- so, the performer, again shaking outthehand-
kerchief, and showing both sides of it to prove it empty,
spreadsitover theback ofthe victim. Againhetapswith his
wand, which, striking the ring through the handkerchief,
causesan unmistakeable hardsound to be heard andthen
grasping the ringas beforethroughthe handkerchie ; f, he de-
liberatelyraisesit up in a horizontalposition, the efifectbeing
asif the glass hadagain returned to the handkerchief. He
then says, "I don'tthinkIwill troublethis gentleman again
heis too muchaconjurorhimself ; then turning rapidly to ;
audience, hesays, "Catch, ladiesand gentlemen,"and "flicks"
the handkerchiefquickly towards the spectators, who duck
headsin expectation ofashower. "Pardonme, ladies, Ifear
I mi a s l s a m rm y e a d i y m. ou ; Th b a u t t g y e o n n t n l e e e ma d n no h t as h t a h v e e gl b a e ss e " n (d a e f s ra i i g d na ; ti I n n g e a ve n r y
one he pleases). "May I trouble you to step forwardone
moment, sir?' Ontheperson indicated doingso, the perfor-
merplaceshimfacing theaudience, and under cover of his
bodytakes thesecond glass outoftheprofonde,andthrowsthe
handkerchiefoverit, remarking, "Yes, ladies and gentlemen,
hereitis, in thisgentleman'stailpocket," Then taking hold
ofthe glass withthelefthand beneath the handkerchief, he
clips withthefirstfinger and thumb, through the handker-
chief, theedgeoftheindia-rubercover, and thus drawing off
thecoverinsidethehandkerchief, handsround the glass and
water for inspection.
THE EABBIT TEICK.
Theperformercomesforward to the audience, andborrowsa
h b a u t t . he, He no a t s w k i s t w hs h t e a t n h d e i r ng it , is f e i m nd p s ty, so a m n e d th i i s n a g ns i w n er i e t, dt w h h a i t ch iti t s he ;
ownerisrequested totakeout. Thearticleinquestion proves
to beanegg. No soonerhasthis been removed, than theper-
formerdiscoversthatthere issomething in the hat, and im-
mediately producestherefromalive rabbit, quickly followed
byasecond. Notknowingwhatotheruseto make of these,
heproposes to passoneofthemintotheother. Theaudience
decidewhichis tobe thevictim, and the performer, placing
themside by sideon the table, proceeds to roll them together,
whenoneis found to have vanished, nobody knows when or
how;butthetheoryis thatithasbeenswallowedbytheremain-
ing rabbit, to the (imaginary) increased fatness of which th«
performer draws special attention.
Having thus passed onerabbit into the other, the next st«pPkUtOU AND ^TAGie MAGIC iB
isto getitoutagain. To do this the performer calls for some
bran, and hisassistantimmediatelybringsforward, andplaces
onatableorchair, a huge glass goblet, twelve inches orthere-
aboutsin height, filledtothebrimwith the commodity. The
performertakes the borrowedhat, and(aftershowingthat it is
empty)placesitmouthupwardsupon anothertable, so as to
beatsomeconsiderabledistancefrom thegobletofbran. He
thenplaces abitasscoveroverthe glass, first, however, taking
upandscatteringahandful ofthe branto prove its genuine-
ness. Takingthe survivingrabbit, and holdingitbythe ears
abovethe covered goblet, heordersthe one swallowed to pass
from itinto the glass, atthe same time strokingif down with
thedisengaged hand, as thoughtofacilitate the process. He
remarks, "Youmustexcusethe comparative slowness of the
operation, ladies and gentlemen, butt«hefact is, the second
rabbitpasses downward in an impalpable powder, and, ifI
werenottotakesufficienttime,we mightfind thatalegor an
ear had been omitted in the process, and the restored rab-
bit would- be a cripple for life. I think we are pretty safe
bythis time, however. Thank you, Bunny I need not
;
trouble you any more." So saying, ke releases the visible
rabbit,and taking offthecoverthebran isfound to have dis-
appeared, andthemissingrabbit to have taken the placein
thegoblet while on turning over the borrowed hat the
;
vanishedbran pours fx-om it.
The readerwhohas duly followed our descriptions of the
appliances employedinthemagicartwillhave little difficulty
in solving theriddleofthistrick. The performer first comes
forwardwithan egg palmedin one hand^ and with a small
rabbitinan innerbreast-pocketon eachsideofhiscoat. The
firststepisthepretended findingofsometMng (itis not stated
what) inthehat. The owneris requested to take it out. ajid
whileall eyesarenaturallyturnedto seewhatthearticle may
prove tobe, the performer, withoutapparent intention, press-
esthe mouth ofthehatwithbothhandsto hisbreast, and tilts
one ofthe rabbits into it. This is next produced, and in
placingitonthe groundathisfeet, the performer brings the
thesecond rabbitinthesamemannerinto the hat. When he
undertakes to pass theone rabbit into the other, he x^laces
bothuponthetablewhich containstherabbit-trap,and, stand-
ingsideways to the audience, pushes the hindmost, under
coveroftheother, through thetrap. Thisparticularrabbitis
notagainproduced, the rabbit in the "bran glasss," being
anotherasmuchlikeit as possible. Ir, only remains to ex-
plainhow thebran comes into the borrowed hat. This is
effected by havingablackalapacabagfilled with bran in one
of theprofondesorunderthe waistcoatofthe performer. Then
SL bagis introduced into thehatafterthemannerofthe gobletPAKLOE AND STAGE MAGIC.
andthebran having been allowedtorunout, the bagis rolled
up in thepalm, and so removed, the bran remaining, to be
producedin duecourse.
THE FAIRY STAR.
This isoneofthe most telling of stage card tricks. The
performer, coming forward with apackofcards, allows six to
bechosen. His assistantmeanwhilebringsforwardand places
onatableahandsomegilt "star" on the stand. The perfor-
mer, collectingthe chosen cards, places them in his pistol,
and firesthem at thestar, when,atthemoment of the explo-
sion,theyareseen toattachthemselvesoneto eachofIts points
asinFig.
Theprincipal point
to beexplainedis the
construction of the
star. Behind each
*'ray" is a moveable
aim, working on a
springhingeat about
two inches distance
from the point, and
carryingaspring clip
atitsotherend,where-
in to insert a card.
(SeeFig. representing
a back view of the
apparatus.) A card
being placed 'in each
of the clips, the six
arm, with the cards
attached to them, are
folded down one by
one behind the centre
of the star, which is
just large enough to
conceal them. Each
card, asfolded, holds
down the one which
hasprecededit. When
the lastcard is folded
down, thefree end of
amoveable button or
leveratthe top of the
pillar on which the
starrests is so turned
asto press upon the armwhichholds the card Listfolded, and
thusto keep itand tlie liveothercards preceding it in place.—
PARLOU AND STAGE MAGIU 57
Thisbutton, however, is so arrangedas to be instantlywith-
drawnupon anupward movement being communicated to a
wirerodwhich passes up the centreofthepillar, and term-
inatesin aflatdiscofmetalat its foot. The apparatus, thus
prepared, is placed immediately over one of the pistons of
thetable. Atthe momentoffiringthepistol the cord of the
pistonispulled. Thepistonrises, pressingup the disc and
wirerod, thebuttom is withdrawn,and the arms,beingthere-
by released, revertto theirnatural position, exhibitinga card
upon eachpoint ofthestar.
Others, again,usewhatare called"longsand shorts" i. e.,
two packs of cards, one of which has had a small
portion shaved off its
length or breadth. The
performeroffers the uncut
pack for the company to
withdraw*from, lettingeach
person retainhiscard, and
then secretly exchanging
thepackfor the shortened
pack, he requests each of
thedrawers(singly) to re-
placehiscard, andtoshuf-
flefreely. Thesubstituted
pack beinga shade smaller
than thereturnedcard, the
latter becomes a "long"
card and therefore, how-
;
ever well the cards are
shufiSed, the performer is
able, withabsolutecertain-
ty, tocutatthat particular
card. "Here isyourcard,"
heremarks, "theknave of
diamonds.' As he names
thecard, the assistant, be-
hind the scenes, takes the
cue, and attaches a cor-
rpsponding card to the
star. The card named is
removed fromthepackand
laid Tipon the table, in
order to be subsequently
placed in the pistol, and
a second drawn card is
returned andshuffledwith the like result.
The starmay, intheabsenceofamechanicaltable, beplaced
onthehand, the discbeingpushed up by the fingers. Some;
58 PAELOK AND STAGE MAGIC.
stars haveamoveablestudatthethe side of the pillar, con-
connectedwiththe rod within, to facilitate this mode ofwork-
ingthe trick.
THE CAED BOUQUET,
Thisis atrickVerysimilarin effect to the last described,
though differingalittleas to the mannerofthe appearance of
thecards. Six cards are drawn, andplacedin a pistol, as in
the lastcase. Avase (apparently of china, but reallyof tin,
japanned), containing a handsome bouquet, isplaced on the
table, and, attheinstant offiring, thesix cards appear ranged
in asemicircleabove the flowersinthebouquet. {SeeFig. In
thisinstance, the cards are attached to thebranches of a sort
offan, so constructedas to open of its own accord, unless
forcibly keptclosed. The cardshaying been duly placed in
position, thisfan isshut, and pressed downwards through a
narrow opening in the lowerpartof the vase, the pressure of
whose sides keepsit, forthetime being, closed. Whenpressed
upwards by theaction ofa piston, thefan risesabove the level
ofthe flowers, and atthe same timeopensand exhibits the six
cards.
Thevase is sometimes made
witha secondpedal, to produce
asecond series ofsix cards In
.
thiscasetwelvecae-dsaredrawn
six of these first appear, and
then, at the command of the
performer, these six suddenly
change to the other six. This
is effected as
follows:—The
twelvecards are pasted back to
back in couples. Each of the
sixarmswhich holdthecardsis
arranged as to be aapable of
beingturned half r^nd (after
themanner ofthecentre ofthe
"watch target"), in which
position it is retained by a
catch, flyingbackhowevertoits
oldpositionassoon asthe catch
isreleased. This sixarms are each turned round inthisman-
ner, bringingwhatare naturallythehindmost cards in front.
T th h e e s m e o c v o e n m d e l n e t ve o r f r t e h l e ea f s i e r s st t l h e e ve s r ix exh c i a b t i c t h s es, th w e h se en ca t r h d e s a ; r t m h s at in o - f
stantlyfly round and reveal the other six cards, into whiph
thosefirst exhibitedappearto have changed.PARLOR AND STAGE MAGIC. 59
Helooks about in searcli ofhispistol, which isimmediately
afterwards brought in by the assistant. The performer places60 PARLOK AND STAGE MAGIC.
thehandkerchief, etc., in the pistol, the assistant meanwhile
bringingforward and placing onthetablea handsomepicture-
frame, mounted on astand. It contains no picture, the space
which thepicture should occupy being filledby boardcovered
withblackcloth. Theperformertakes aim at*it, and fires,
when theborrowed articlesare seen instantly to attachthem-
selves to the black background, whence, being removed,
they are handed to theowners for identification.
The picture-frame, whichis oftheappearanceshowninFig.
andstandsaltogetherabouttwo feethigh, is backedby a sort
ofwooden box, aninch andahalfin depth, andalittle smaller
than the external measurementof the frame. The inside of
thisboxiscoveredwithblack cloth, and in factfrom the true
j b e a c c t k s o ar f e th f e as f t r e a n m e e d ; by an m d ea it n i s su o p f o s n ma t l hi l s s t h ha a t rp th h e oo b k o s, rro t w he ed ba o c b k -
openingon hinges to facilitate the doing so. An ordinary
spring roller-blind, alsoofblack cloth, works up and down
justbehind the openingof theframe. We have said an or-
dinary springblind, but, in truth, the usual checkatthe side
iswanting, andtheblindtherefore, ifdrawn down, instantly
flies upagain, unless held downfromthe elbow. The blind
terminatesatbottom in asquare lath, five-eighths of an inch
inlength bythree eighthsin thickness, with awirepin, half-
an-inchinlength, projectingat right angles from its hinder
side. The ends ofthislath, when the blind is drawn down,
sink into two uprigh grooves, oneateach sideof the frame,
thereby keepingthelatter square, and the pinin a horizontal
position. Thecatch isnow hooked over thepin, thusholding
theblind down. A wire rod, attached to this catch, passes
downthe column onwhichthe frame stands, and terminates
in the usual disc orpedal atbottom.
The sudden appearance ofthe articles in theframe is thus
sufficiently accounted for, but it remains to be explained in
whatmanner the wereplaced there, as,theyhave (apparently)
neverbeen removed from the sight of the audience what is
placed upon the tableis a substitute handkerchief, similarly
rolledup, while the original is dropped on the sei'vante,PAKLOE AND STAGE MAGIC. 61
and carriedoffby the assistant when he bringsin the pistol.
Having thusobtained possession of the articles, he quickly
placesthemintheframe, anddrawsdownandfastenstheblind.
This done, he closes the dooratthe back, and brings forward
theframe, takingcare to place it immediatelyoverone of the
pistonsofthe table. Asthe pistol is firedhe pulls the cord,
the blind fliesup, andthearticlesarerevealed.
THE FLYING WATCHES AND THE BBOKEN PLATE.62 rAKLOR AND STAGE MAGlU.
Thisisarather more elaborate form of the trick last de*
scribed, i'be performercollectsthreeorfourwatchesfrom the
company, theassistant, meanwhile, beingsenttofetch a plate,
Onhis return, the watches arelaid one by one on the plate,
and he isorderedtoplacethem on the table. In attempting
todosohetripsand falls, thewatches being scattered in all
directions, andtheplate being smashed to pieces. The per-
formerreprimandsthe ofenderforhis carelessness, and pick-
ing up the watches, findsthatthey areinjured invariousways.
Afteramomentaryhesitation, hehits on a way of repairing
thedamage. Callingfor his pistol, he drops the battered
watchesand the fragments of the plate into it, keeping all
down withawad ofnewspaper. Theassistantnow brings in
the picture frame, as in the last trick, and the performer
takinggood aim, firesat it. At theinstantoffiring, the plate
is seenrestored inthe centreoftheframe, with the borrowed
watchesencirclingit. The performeradvances toremoveand
retuinthemto the owners, butis (or appears to be)thunder-
struckatperceivingthattherestorationisincomplete, a large
piece being missingfrom the plate. {See ¥ig.) Aftera mo-
ment's reflection, he discoversthe cause ofthedefect,forlook-
ingaboutupon thestage he finds and picks up a fragment
which hehad overlooked when he put the rest in the pistol,
andwhich consequently iswantingin the restored plate. He
apologizes for the oversight, and proceeds to remedy it.
Standing at the farthestportion of the stage, he makes the
themotion of throwing the recovered fragment towards the
the frame. Itis seen to vanish from his hand, and the
plate at the same moment appears whole as at first. The
plate is removed, andwith the restored watches handed to
the audience for examination, when the closest inspection
fails to discover any trace of fi-acture.
The firstpoint to be explained is the mode in which the
assistant obtains possession ol the borrowed watches, inorder
to place them in the frame. The watches are collected by
the*performer in a changing apparatus In this is placed
beforehand a like number of dummy watches, and it is
these latter which are placed onthe plate, and meet the pre-
destinated downfall. The apparatus being apparently
left empty, nosuspicion is excited by the factthat the assist-
ant, when sentto fetchthe pistol orthe frame, carries it off as
nolongerneeded.
The sudden restoration ofthe piece app,arently wanting in
intheplate, thoughmarvellous to the uninitiated, is really
effected by very simplemeans. Therestored plateis through-
out wholeand unbroken, butthe effect ofa piece wanting is
produced by covering one portion of its outer rim with an
angular piece ofblackvelvet oralapaca, similarto thatwhich—
PARLOR AND STAGE MAGIC. 63
eortrs th«back oftheframe. This illusive effect is perf««t.
The frameisprovidedwith two pedals, the first releasing the
blackblindin front oftheplateandwatches, and the second
serving to withdraw the angularpiece of cloth already men-
tioned,and thus (apparently)effectingthecomplete restoration
of the plate. The pretended disappearance of the broken
piece from the hand at the moment of throwing is effected
hj taking it first in the left hand, and thence apparently
transferring itto the right by the tourniquet, so that when
the right hand is opened in the actofthrowing, it is natural-
ly found empty.
THE SPHINX. {SeeFrontspiece.)
Fewtrickshave oflate years caused so great a sensation as
this now well-known illusion, which was first introduced to
theLondonpublic'by the late Colonel Stodare. We cannot
better preface theexplanation ofthetrickthan by quoting a
portion oftheLondon Timesnotice on thesubject.
" Mostintricateis theproblem proposed by Colonel
Stodare, when, in addition to his admirable feats of ventrilo-
quism and legerdemain, he presents to his patrons a novel
illusion calledthe 'Sphinx,' Placing uponan uncovered table
achest similarin size to thethe cases commonly occupied by
stuffed dogsor foxes, heremovesthesidefacing thespectators
and revealsahead attired after the fashion of an Egyptian
Sphinx. Toavoid the suspicion of ventriloquism, he retires
toa distancefrom the figuresupposed to be too great for the
practice ofthe art, taking his position on the border-line of
the stalls and the area, while the chestis on the stage. Thus
stationed, he calls iipon the Sphinx to open its eyes, which it
does—to smile, whichit does also, though the habitualexpres-
sionofits countenance is most melancholy, and to make a
speech, which it doesalso thisbeing the miraculous part of
the exhibition. Notonly with perspicuity, butwith something
w li h k i e le el it o s qu c e o n u c n e t , en d a o n e c s e it is ut a t n e i r m s a o t m e e d t a w n e d nt e y xp l r i e n s e s s iv o e f , v t e h r e se m ; o a v n e d -
mentofthe lips, in which there is nothingmechanical, exactly
corresponds to thesounds articulated.
This is certainly one of the most extraordinary illusions
everpresented tothe public. Thatthe speechis spokenby a
human voice there is no doubt, but how isa head to be con-
trived which, being detached from anything like a body, con-
fined in a case, which itcompletely fills, and placedon abare-
legged table, willaccompany a speech, that apparently pro-
ceeds from its lips, with astrictly appropriate movementofthe
mouth, and play ofthecountenance thatis the reverse of me-
chanical? Eelsj as we all know, canwiggle about after they64 PAELORAND STAGE MAGIC.
havebeen chopped into half-a-dozen pieces ; buta head that,
likethatofthePhysicianDouban
,
intheArabiantales, puruses
itseloquence after it has been servedfrom its body, scarcely
comeswithinthe reach of possibilities unless, indeed, the
old-fashioned assertion that 'KingCharl ; eswalked and talked
half-an-honrafterhishead wascutoff,'istobereceived, notas
an illustrstion of defectivepunctuation, butasapositive histo-
ricalstatement.
Davus might have solved the 'Anthropoglossus,' but Col-
onelStodare presents us with aSphinxthatisreallyworthy of
an CEdipus."
For the benefitofthose whohave never seen this illusion
presented upon the stage, we will describe its effect a little
moreminutely. The Sphinxis alwaysmadea separateportion
ofthe entertainment, asitisnecessaryto lowerthecurtain for
afew momentsbefore and after its appearance, in order to
arrangeand remove the necessary preparations. The curtain
rises, and reveals a round or oval table, supported upon
threeslender legs, and utterly devoid ofdrapery. This stands
inacurtained recess often or twelve feetsquare, openon the
side towards the audience. The performer comes forward
bearingacloth-covered box, fifteen or twentyinches square,
and placesitupon thetable already mentioned. Hethen un-
locksthebox, the front ofwhich dropsdown,, so as to give a
perfectviewoftheinterior, inwhich isseen aheadofEgyptian
fashion, and colored in perfect imitationof life. The perfor-
mernowretires to a position in thevery midstoftheaudience
andraising his wand, saysin a tone of command. "Sphinx,
awake!" The Sphinx slowly opens its eyes, looking first to
the frontwith astrong gaze then, as if gradually gaining
consciousness, totheone sidea;ndthe other, the head moving
elightywith the eyes. Questionsare put bythe performer to
thehead, and are answeredby it, the play of the mouth and
features beingin perfect harmony with the sounds uttered.
Finally, in answer to a query ofthe operator, the Sphinx de-
clamsaneatly turned oraclein verse. Thisconcludes the ex-
hibition, and the performer closes the box. Should the audi-
encecallfor an enchore, the performer addresses them to the
following orsome similiar effect: '•Ladiesand gentlemen, I
am gladthatthe Sphinxhas afforJ|ed you satisfaction, and I
should beonlytoo pleased to beable to indulge the desire
youkindly testify ofseeingit again. Unfortunately, this is
not possible. The charm by whichIam enabled, asyou have
seen, to revivify for aspacetheashes of an acient Egyptian,
who livedand died some centries ago, lasts but for fifteen
minutes. That timehasnow expired, and the headwhich has
astonished you withitsmysteriouseloquence hasagain return-
ed toits original dust" Ashespeaksthe last words, heagainPAELOR AND STAGE MAGIC 65
opensthebox, and the hecad is found to have disappeared,
leavingin itsplace ahandfulofashes.
Thissingularillusiondepends uponthe well-known princi-
ple commonto optics asto mechanics, that "theangle of re-
flection is equal to theangle ofincidence." Thus, ifaperson
standing atthe point a, look into the mirror placed in the
positionindicatedbytheline he, he will see reflected no.
himself, butwhatever object may be placed at the point d. Bj
d
aningeniousapplication of the principle a looking-glassmay
be usedto concealagiven objectbehind it, whileat the same
time an imagereflected in the glassmaybo made to represent
whatwouldbepresumably seen ifno glass were there, and
thuspreventthe presence ofthemirrorfrombeing suspected.
Thisisthe secretofthe Sphinx. The table, as already men-
tioned, has three legs, onein. front, and one ateach side. Be-
tween these legsthe spectator sees apparently the curtains at
theback ofthe recess, but really areflection ofthecurtains at
the sides. The space between the middle leg and that on
eithersideis occupied by pieces of looking-glass whichrepre-
sents aground planofthe arrangement), extendingfrom a to
h, andato c. The glass extends quitedownto the floor, which
is covered with cloth ofthe samematerial and coloras the sur-
rounding curtains. The spectators, therefore, lookingtowards
thetable, see above itthe curtains at the back, and delow it
the reflection ofthe curtainsatthe sides which, however, if
therelative angles are properlyarranged, ;appears to be simply
the continuation orloworportion ofthe curtains at the back.
Theillusion is perfect, and the spectator, from the position
assigned tohim, cannot possibly discover, by the evidence of
hissenses, thatheis looking at any other than an ordinarybo PAELOK AND STAGE MAGIC.
bave-leggedtable, with the background visiblo in th« nsual
way.
The restis avery simple matter. The personwhois repre-
sent the Sphinxisbeforehand placed, duly attired,underneath
the table. There isatrap inthe tablethrough which he can
pass his head at the proper moment. Thistrap is a round
piece ofwood, covered tomatchthe surface of the table, and
workingon ahingeon the side nearest to the audience. It
hasno spring, but is kept closed by means of button on
ths opposite side, and when released hangs down perpen-
dicularly. It must be large enough to allow the passage of
thesomewhateleborateheadpiece of the Sphinx, and would
therefore leavean openspace visible round the neck. This
difficultyis met by the expedient of having awoodencollar,
whose uppersurface isafacsimile in size and pattern of the
trap fastened round the neck of the representative of the
Sphinx, When he lifts his head up through the trap, this
collarexactly fills the opening, and thus shows no break in
the surface ofthe table. The box is bottomless, and when
brought forward by the performeris empt3\ A little caution
hasto be observed in placing it upon the table, for, if the
performer were to approach the table from the side, his legs
would be reflected in the glass, and would thereby betray
thesecret. He musttherefore make his appearancefrom some
quarter outsideotthe curtainedrecess, and advanceto a posi-
tionwellin front of, andatsomelittle distancefrom thetable,
when, by mpving in a etraight line from the audience to-
wards the middle leg a, he prevents this inconvenient re-
flection. The placing the box upon the table, and the un-
locking it, allow some time for the representative of Sphinx
toget his head into positionwithin it, This done, the box
is opened, and the rest depends on the dramatic talent of
the performer and hisassistant. Theperformancebeingcon-
cluded, the boxis again locked, and the head withdrawn, a
handful ofashes being introduoed on the trap in its stead.
The angle at which the two mirrors should be set cannot
be determined absolutely, but will vary according to the
distance and position of the surrounding drapery.
Some performers use a shawl ora screen of cardboaid in
place of the box, but we doubt whether any method ismore
efi'ective than that above described.
Theghastly illusion of the so-called "Decapitated Head,"
is merely the "Sphinx,"in alesspleasantform.
THE CABINET OF PB0TEX7S.
Thisis another adaptation of the principle on which the
Sphinx illusion isfounded, Itis thejointinvention ofMessrs..
FARLOE AND STAGE MAGIC. 67
Pepperand Tobin, bywhom it was patented in 1865, The
firststepstowards apatentforthe Sphinxwere also taken in
thesameyear, butthe latterinvention neverpreceded beyond
provisional protection.
TheCabinetof Proteus
is awooden closet, 7to
8feetin heightbyfour
orfivefeetsquare, sup-
ported onshortlegs, so
as to excludethe idea
of any communication
withthefloor. (/SeeFig.)
Ithasfolding doorsand
an upright pillar ex-
tends from top to bot-
tom ofthe interior, at
aboutthe centre of the
cabinet. At the topof
this pillar, in front is
fixed alamp, sothatthe
wholeof the interior is
brightly illuminated.
The cabinet may be
used in various ways.
Oneofthemoststriking
is asfollows : The fold-
ing doors are opened,
disclosing the interior
perfectly empty. (;See Fig.) The exhibitor directshis assist-
anttowalk into the cabinet. He does so, and thedoors are
closed. Meanwhile, a couple of gentlemen, selectedby the
audience, areinvited to stand behind or beside the cabinet,
and see thatno one obtains ingressor egress by any secret
opening. Notwithstanding theseprecautions, when the doors
areagain opened, the assistantisfound to have vanished, and
another person, different in drees, in stature, and in com-
plexion, is found inhis place. This person stepsforth, makes
his bow, and retires. Again the cabinet, now empty, isclosed,
and afteran interval ofafew moments, again opened. This
timehuman skeleton is found to occupy the vacant space
Thisghastlyobject having been removed, and the doorhaving
been oncemore closed and opened, another person, sayalady,
appears. This person having retired, the doors are again
c e l n o t s e e r d ed ; a is nd on w c h e e m n or t e he f a o ie un a d gai w n it o h p i e n n . ed, A t c h o e mm p i e t r t s e o e n f w r h o o m fi t r h s e t
audignce arenow invited toexamine the cabinet within and
without, butall theirscrutiny cannot detect any hiddenspace—,
even sufficientto conceal amouse. "68 PARLOR AND STAGE MAGIC.
An examination ofFig, representing a ground plan of the
cabinet, willmake plain the seeming mystery. A moveable
flapQ6, workingonhinges at&, extendsfrom top to bottom
of each side,
resting when
thrown open
againstthepost
cin the middle
and thns en-
closing atrian-
gular space at
the back oftlie
cabinet. The
outer surfaces
of these flaps
{i.e., the siir-
faces exposed
when they are
folded bade
against the
sidesofthecab-
inet) are, like
the rest of the
interior, covei-
ed with wall
paper, of a
cri mson or
other d a rk
color, Thec})-
posite sides ui
theflapsare oflooking-glass, andwhen the fiaps are folded
backagainst the posts, reflect the surfaces against which they
previously rested, aud which are covered with paper of the
samepattern astherest. The effcfcto the eyeofthe spectatoi-
is thatofa perfectly empty char^ber though, as we have seen,
thereisinrealityau enclosedtrian-
gularspacebehindthe post. This
is capable of containing two or
three persons, and here it is that
the persons nnd thingsintended to
appearin succession areconcealed.
Tlie assistant, entering in sight of
the audience, changes places, as
the door is closd, with one of the
otherpersons. This person having
retired, and the door being again
closed, those who are still within
place the skeleton in position infront of post. againPARLOE AND STAGE MAGIC. 69
retireto their hiding-place. When all theresthave appeared,
the personwho firs entered presses the flapsagainstthe sides
ofthecabinet, againstwhich they areretained byaspringlock
oneach side, andthepublic may then safely be admitted, as
theirclosetinspectioncannotpossibly discoverthe secret.
THE INDIAN BASKET TRICK.
Thisisanotherofthesensational feats identified with the
thename ofColonel Stodare, and isimitated from asimilar il-
lusion performed by theIndian conjurors. Itis notapleasant
trick towitness, but, like the "DecapitatedHead," it drew im-
mensecrowds, its fictitious horror beingapparently its chief
a S t t t o r d a a c r t e i , on i . s a I s t f s o e l f l f o ec w t s , : a — s A th l e ar t g r e ic o k b w l a o s ng or b i a g s i k n e a t l , ly sa p y r f e i s v e e n f t e e e d t b b y y
two, and asdeepaswide, is broughtin and placed on a low
standorbench, so as to beraised clearofthe stage. The per-
former comesforward with adrawnsword in his right hapd,70 PARLOR AND STAGE MAGIC.
and leadingwiththe otherhand a j'ounglady, dressed in a
closely-fittingrobe of black velvet. Reproaching her upon
some pretended groundofcomplaint,hedeclaresthatshemust
be punished, and forthwith beginsto blindfold hereyes. She
simulatesterror, beggingfor mercy, and finally escaping from
him, runs offthe stage. He follows her, and instanily reap-
pears, draggingherby thewrist. Regardless forhersobs and
cries, he compels her to enter the basket, in which she lies
down, and the lid is closed. Simulatinganaccess offury, he
truststhe sword through the basket (from the front) invarious
places. Piercing screams are heard from theinterior, and the
sword when withrawn is seen to be red with blood. The
screams gradually subside, and allisstill, Athrill of horror
rungthrough the audience, who arehalfinclined to call inthe
police, andhand overthe professor tothe nearest magistrate.
Foramomentthereis a pause, and thenthe performer, calmly
wipingthebloody sword on awhitepocket-handkerchief, says,
ladies and gentlemen, I fearyou imaginethat I have hurt the
lady who was the subject of this experiment. Pray disabuse
yourselvesof such an idea. She had disobeyed me, and I
therefore determined to punish her by giving her a little
f s r o i m gh e t t ; im b e ut be n f o o t r h e in I g tr m u o s r t e. the T s h w e or f d ac i t n i t s o , i s t. heh Y a o d u l d e o ft n' t t he b b e a l s ie k v e e t
me, I see. Allow metoshow you, inthe firstplace, that the
basketis empty," He turns overthebasket accordingly, and
showsthatthe lady has vanished. "Should you desirefurther
proof, the lady will answer for herself." Thelady at this
momentcomes forward from a different portion of the room,
and having made her bow, retires.
Thisstartling illusion is performed as follows : —To begin
with, there aretwo ladies employed, in figure and general ap-
pearanceas nearly alike as possible. Theirdress is also ex-
actlysimilar. The little dramatic scene with which the trick
commences is designed to impress upon the audience the
featuresofthe lady who firstappears. When sheisblindfold-
ed, she, asalready mentioned, runs offthe stage. The perfor-
merrunsafterher, and apparently bringing her back, really
brings backin her place the secondlady, who is standing in
readiness, blindfolded in precisely the sameway, behind the
scenes. Asthe bandagecovers the greaterpartofherfeatures,
thereis littlefearofthe spectators detecting the substitution
thathastaken place. The substitute lady now enters the
basket, where she lies, compressing herself into a smallcom-
passas possible, along the back. Knowingthe position which
she occupies, itisnotvery diflBcult matterfor the operator so
to directthe trusts ofthe swordasto avoid any risk in injur-
ingher. The chiefthingtobeattendedto for this purpose i«
to thrustalways inan upward direction. TlhQ appearance o|PARLOR AND STAGE MAGIC. 71
blood on theswordmaybe producedeitherbythe ladyin the
basket drawing alongtheblade, as itiswithdrawn after each
thrust, a spongesaturated with some crimson fluid, orby a
mechanical arrangement in the hilt, causing the supposed
blood, on pressure, to trickle downthe blade.
The only pointthatremains to be explained isthe diflSculty
whichwill probably alreadyhavesuggesteditselftothe reader,
viz., "Howdoes the performer manage to show the basket
emptyattheclose ofthetrick?" Simplybyhavingthe basket
madeonthe principleof the " inexhaustible box." The per-
former takes care to tilt the basket over to the front before
he raises the lid. This leaves the lady on the true bottom
ofthebasket(seeFig., while a moveab)e flap, fixed at right
angles to the bottom, and lying in its normal position flat
againstthe front of the basket, for the time beingrepresents
the bottom to the eye of the audience. While the basket is
thus shown apparently empty, the lady who first appeared
in the trick comes forward, and is immediately recognized
by the audience, and as they are fully persuaded that she
the person placed in the basket, the inference that she has
escaped from it by some quasi-supernatural means seems
inevitable.
The above istheform in which the trick was first intro-
duced to thepublic, but another modus operandi has since
been adopted by some performers. The low table or bench
on which the basket is placedis in this case constructed on
the principle ofthe Sphinx-table, with looking-glass between
thelegs, and withalargetrapin thetop. Thebasketused is
notmadeliketheinexhaustiblebox, butthebottom is move-
able, andhingedagainstthe front, soastoliftup flat against
itwhenrequired. Onelady only is employed. "When she is
abouttostep intothe basket, thebottom is pushed up from
below, andshe thus steps throughthe basket and the table,
and thencepassesthrough a trap-door, beneaththestage. The
basketisthenclosed, andthebottomallowed tofallback into
its place. As the basketis leftinthis case empty, the perfo-r-
mermaythrustintoitin any direction atpleasure,thescreams
being utteredby theladyfrom hersafe quartersbelow. Atthe
propermomentthe performer lifts the barket bodily ofi" the
table, andshowsitreally empty,whilethelady, as tn the for-
mercaseappearsinsomeotherquarter.
THE MAGIC DaUM.
This is in appearance an ordinary side-drum, but being
hungupbycordsfromthe ceiling, it will forthwith, without
any visible drumsticks, give either asingle rap or a roll, or
jseep timetoany piece ofmusic. Itwillfurtheranswer ques'PARLORAND STAGE MAGIC
72
tions and tell fortunes, indicate chosen cards, etc., after the
manner ofthe magic bell.
These mysterious effects are produced by two hammers oi
drumsticks, fixed against one endofthe drum on the inside.
Each ofthese isattached to the keeper of an electro-magnet,
bot there isa difference inthe mode of their working. One
worksafter the manner ofthe bell, gi^'inga single tap when-
ever contact ismade, butthenceforward remainingsilent until
the circuitis again broken and again completed, In other
words, each pressure ofthe connecting studproducesonerap,
and no more. The secondhammer is differentlyarranged. By
means ofwhat is called a "contact-breaker," the movement
ofthe keeper, when attractedby the magnet, of itself breaks
the circuit. The circuit being broken, the iron is no longer
magnetic, and the keeperflies backto its old position, thereby
oncemore completing the circuit. As longasthe pressure on
the stud continues, therefore, the circuit isalternately made
and broken in rapid succession, involving a corresponding
movementofthe keeper and hammer, and producinga" roll"
ofthe drum. The use ofthetwo hammers involvestheneces-
sityofthe two electoral circuitsandtwo connecting studs, and
ofthree cords to suspend the drum (one being common to
both circuits). With a little practice in the management of
the two studs, the single rappermay be made to beattimetoa
tune, while the other stud brines in the rollat appropriatein-
tervals.
There are some drums (ofan inferior character) made with
W on h e er h e am it m i e s r ds o s n i l r y ed ; t s o uc g h iv h e a a m s m i e ng r le be r i a n p g , a t r h r i a s ng m e a d y for b . e th e e ffe r c ol t l e . d
bypressing and instantly realeasing the stud with a light,
quick touch
;
butsomelittle dexterityisrequired.
In the case ofalltheseappliances for magically answering
questions, itisnecessary thattheassistantwhohas the control
ofthe apparatus should bein such apositionas to distinctly
hearthe questions asked. In fortune-telling matters the an-
swermay generally be leftto his own discretion
;
but for in-
dicating whatcardis chosen, etc., itis necessary eitherthatan
agreed card beforced, or that a carefully arranged code of
verbal signals should be employed, whereby the form of the
question may itselfindicate the properanswer. Considerable
tun may be caused by the magician selecting an evidently
"engaged" couple, and after askinghowmanymonthsit will
be beforetheyaremarried, etc., inquiring, in astagewhisper,
howmany children they are destined to be blest with. The
drum raps steadly upto (say) five, and this isaccepted as the
answer, when, after a moment's pause, two more raps are
heardinquicksuccseion. Thisalarming omenis received with
generallaughter, amidwhich the drum givesanotherrap, andPARLOR AND STAGE MAGIO
then another, continuing untilthe performer, scandalized at
itsbehaviour, unhooks it from thecords, and carries it, still
rapping, offthe stage. The lasteffect is wholly independent
ofelectricity, being producedby he performer tapping with
with his lingers thatone end ofthe drum which for the time
beingisfarthestfrom theaudience.
Thereare some few other tricks performed by the aid of
electticity, butanyonewho understandsthe principleofthose
above described maymake averyshrevved guessat the work-
ingofthe remainder. All tricksofthisclass, though ingenious
and eflfective, are open to one or two serious objections. In
thetirstplace, theapparatusis very costly, and secondly, they
are uupleassntly liable fromthe nicetyoftheirmechanism and
theabsolute necessity of perfect electrical connection in all
theirparts, to hang fireat the critical moment, and lea.ve the
operatorin avery embarrassing position. ImaginethefeelingsU PAELOE A5^D STAGE! MAGld.
ofa performer -who, having just introduced his wonderful
drum, -whichisto display unheard-of oracuhir powers, finds
that theinstrumentremains as mute as the celebrated harpof
Tara's hall, andrefuses to bearout in the smallest degree, his
grandiloquent assertions Yesthisunpleasantresult mayoc-
curatany time fromthe s . implebreaking of a wire, or some
even slighter cause. This, it appearsto us, isaserious draw-
backto the electricaltricks, though wherethey are exhibited
at theirbest illusions are more beautiful, or have more of
genuine magicaboutthem.
We should mention, before quitting the subject of these
tricks, thatin ordertoavoid the trouble and expense of fixing
thenecessaryconductingwiresinabuildingnot especially ap-
propriated to magical performances, an upright brass rod
(which may be detached at pleasure, is sometimes fitted on
eachsideoftheperformer'stable (seeFig.), and the apparatus
inuse (drum, bell,.cash-box, etc.) is suspendedby appropriate
cordsbetweenthese rods. The conducting wiresare connect-
ed withinthetable with the lower ends ofthe brass uprights,
andthence pass downits hinderlegs tothebattery behind the
scenes. There are many considerations of convenience in
favorsofthis arrangement, but the tricks performed are less
effective thanwhere the apparatus is hung fairly from the
ceiling, and apparentlyoutofallpossiblereachof mechanical
influence.
THE AKIAIi SUSPENSION OE A LIVINO WOMAN MADE TO EECLINE
IN MID AIE.
This is avery oldtrick, performed originally bythe Indian
jugglers, who keptthe moduseperandiaprofound secret. The
ingenuity, howeverofKobert Houdin penetrated the mystery,
andmadeit aspecial featureof his seances fantastiques. The
public mind was much interested iu theanaestheticquality of
ether, which had recently been discovered. Kobert Houdin,
manipulated this fact into a valuable advertisement. He
gaveoutwhathehad discovered in the popular anaesthetic a
stillmoremarvellous property, viz., thatwhen inhaled under
certainconditions, it neutralized the attraction of gravitation
iu the person inhalingit, whobecame, forthetimebeing, light
as air. Inproofofthis, hebroughtforwardhisyoungest son,
tlienachild often orthereabouts, and after havingmade him
smellatasmall phial, really empty, but supposed to contain
ether, caused him to recline in mid-air, with no other support
thanthataffordedbyall appearance, anordinarywalking-stick,
])laced in a. vertical position under the right elbow. It is
characteristicofRobert Houdin'sminuteattention to the mise
snsceneofa trick, thatwhilehisson sniffedattheempty bottle.
iii>i assi«tautbehind the scenes, poured genuine ether upon aPARLOtl AND STAGE MAGId.
totshovel, so thatthefumes, reaching thenostralsoftheaudi
euce, mightprove, indirectlybut convincinglj', that ether was
really employed. Afterthe retirementofRobertHoudin from
thestage, the trickfell comparatively outofnotice, till it was
revi m vedin anew form bytheFakirofOolu (Professor Sylves-
ter) England, and contemporaneously by De Vere on thePAELOE AND STAGH MAGtd.
Continent. Afull grownyoung lady wasinthiscase the sub-
jectoftheillusion, and wasmade, whilestill suspendedin air,
toassumevarious costumes and characters. The illusion, in
thisnewform, tookthefancy ofthepublic, andbrought forth
a co h m o p st le o n f e i s m s it a a s t t o h r e s t ; w b o ut pe f r e f w or h m a e v r e s p n r a e m s e e d n . ted Fo it ra wit t h ime the it s p a r m o e -
duced quiteamarked sensation, and eqnal crowds thronging
1PAELOK AND ^Vm'Ji MAGrld
T,"
to'see Sylvesterin Loudon, andD'aVerein Paris, St. Pfters-
burg, Brussels, Pestb, Dresden, Strasburg, and other con-
tinental cities. Eecent mechanical improvements, to which
the last-named Professor has materially contributed, have
greatly heightened the effect ofthetrick—the lady being made,
to rise spontansonsly from the perpendicularto the horizontal78 I^AELOR AKD STAGE MAGIC.
position, and to continue to floatinthe airafterher lastosten-
sible support has been removed.
Apartfrom these special mysteries, — which we are not at
liberty toreveal, the trick is as follows: The performerbrings-
forward the girlor boy whois to be the subjectof theillusion,
and who is dressed in some fancy costume. Alow bench or
table, say five feetin length by two in width, and on legs
about six inches in height, is broughtforward, and shown to
be wholly disconnected from the floor orthe stage, on tJais is
placed a small stool, on whichthe subject of the experiment
(whom, in the present instance, wewill sujDposeto beayoung
lady) mounts. She extends her arms, and under each is
placeda stout rod on pole of appropriate length. (/See Fig.)
The performer makes pretended mesmeric passes over her,
and in aminute or two herhead isseen to droop, and after a
few more passesher eyes close, and sheis, to all external ap-
pearance, in a mesmeric sleep. The operator now takes the
stool from underher feet,
when she hangs suspend-
ed between two rods.
Again a few more passes,
and the operator re-
moves the rod that
supports the left arm, and
gently mesmerises the
arm down to the side, t7
Stillthegirlhangsmotion-
less,withno other support
than the single upright
rod on which her right
arm rests. (See Fig.) The
operator now drajoes her
invarious costumes, still
keeping up from time
to time the supposed
mesmeric passes. Bend-
ing herrightarm so as to
support her head, henext
lifts her gently toanangle
of to the upright rod
(asshown by the dotted
line in Fig. and finally
raises herto a horizontal
position, as in Fig.
An inspection of the
diagrams will already
have furnished the clue
to themystery.fAKLOR AND STAGE MAGIC. 76
Of the two npright rods, oue (that placed imder the
left arm) is wholly without preparation, and may be
freely handed for examination. The other, a, -is either
ofiron throughout (this Avas the casowith thepretended walk-
ing-stick used by Eobert Houdin) or of well-seasoned wood
withan iron core, and capable ofbearing avery heavy weigbt.
The lower partofthis sinks into a socketin the low board or
ortable already mentioned, and thus becomes,forthe timebe-
ing, alixtnre. Inthe upper end is hollowed outa smallspace,
aboutan inchin depth, for the purpose which will presently
apuoar -Thesubjectofthe experimentwears, underneath her
.
page's costume, asortofiron corset, or framework, similar to
thit shown in Figs. An iron girdle, « o, passes nearly roiind
thewaist, the circle being completed by a leather strap. At
rii^ht anglesto this, on the right side, is fixed an iron upright,
h h, extending fromjnstbelow the armpit nearly to the knee,
butwith ajoint c (working back-
wards only) at the hip, a strap d,
round theleg, keepingitin posi-
tion, so as to allow of bending
the thigh. From the back ofthe
iron girdle, in the centre proceeds
a crutch e, also of iron, passing
between the legs, and, connected
bya strap to the front of the
girdle. A fourth strap f, con-
nected with tlie girdle in front
and rear, passes over the left
shoulder, and prevents any risk
ofthe apparatits slipping down-
wards. To the upperpart ofthe
upright, 1) h, -immediately below
thearmpit, is rivited a short flat
pieceof iron, g, working freely
upon it. The end of g, which
formsthejointshown enlarged in
Fig. iswelded into a semicircular
ratchet, with three teeth corres-
ponding with the check 7i, lying-
parallel with bb, and which, in
its normal position, ispressed up
close into the.teethof the ratchet
bya spring, but may b© with-
drawn by a downward pressure
^on the hook i. The opposite end
g has projecting from its under
si.lp. iit right angles, anironplug,
J. whicli just fits into the cavity80 PARLOR AND STAGE MAGIC.
beforementionedin thetop oftheroda. There is an opening
in the underpartofthe sleeve, to give passage to this plug,
which, when inserted in the correspondingcavityofa, makes
gr, relative toit, a fixture. The remainder of the iron frame-
work (and with itthe lady) remains moveable, to the extent
that, by means ofthejoint atg, itcan be made to describe an
an arc of 90o to to the upright rod.
Themode ofoperation will now beclear When the young
I'ady mounts on the stool, and extends her arms, th*e perfor-
Ai^r, in placing the upright beneath them, takes care to let
tko. lower end of a sink properly into the socket, and adapt
the ping Jto thecavity at top. The apparatus is now .in the
position shown in Fig ., and when the stool is removed, the
lady isleft apparently resting on a, but in reality comfort-
ably seated in her iron cage, the di'iferent parts of which
are all carefully padded, so as to occasion herno discomfort.
Herlegs andarms, being quite free, may be placed in anypo-
sition that the performer choses; andwhen presently he lifts
her into aslanting position, as shown bythedotted linein the
figure the check h drops into the second toothof the ratchet,
andthusmaintains herin that,position. Afterashortinterval
she is lifted into the horizontal position as shoAvn, when the
checkdrops into the third tooth of tlieratchet, and so m.nin-
tuins her, apparently sleepingupon an aerial conch. As the
support terminates abovethe riglit knee, the legs arekept ex-
tended by muscular power. This attitude is tlierefore verj"
fatiguing, audJ'or thatreason cannot be continued more than
afew moments. Toreplace the body in an upright position,
the performer places both hands under therecnmbent figure,
the lefthand easily finding (through thetnnio ) and drawing
down the hook i thereby withdrawing the check, and allow-
ingthe lady to sink down gently to the perpendicular. The
:stoolisagain placed underher feet, and the second upright
underher leftarm, before the operatorbegins to demesmerize
her, which he does after the orthodox fashion with reverse
passes, the lady stimulating as bestshe may thebewildered
and half-scared expression ofonenewly awakened from ames-
merictrance.
THE BUENING GLOBE.
This is a hollow brass globe from fourto sixinches in di-
ameter, mounted onafootof about the same hight, and sur-
mounted by a cap or lid, so that itforms, in fact, a spherical
canister. Araised band, also of brass, passes horizontally
around the giobe; and this, which isapparently a mere orna-
ment, is really designed toconceal the fact that the globe is
divided into two se])erate heiuispheres, revolving one upon
the other. Within this external globe isan innerone. divided?AKL01i AND STAGE MAGIG, 81
iftto two compartmeuts, each having a separate opening and
Ko contrived thateach of these openiugs in turn, is made to
correspond with the opening of the external globe, according
as the npper hemisphere of the latter ismoved round from
rightto leftorthe reverse way. Theglobe is prepared by plac-
ing a sribstitate handkerchief, or peiceof cambric, in one or
other of the innercompartments, and then bringingthe other
couipurtment into correspondence with the external opening.
Aborrowed handkerchief beingopenly placed in the empty
compartment, the performerby merely givinga balf turn to
the footof the apparatus, brings the compartment containing
the substitute uppermost.
THE VANISHING GLOVES.
This is a capital trick with which to commence an entertain-
m fo e r n e t t ; he wh pe e r n fo c r o m m a i n n c g e , p a r s o i p t e s r h h o a u s ld co do m , me u n n c a e n d n , ou it nc h e a d s , an and air be o - f
improvisation which greatly enhances its effect, and at once
awakens the attention oftLeaudience.
The performer comes forward infullevening dres While
saying afew words by way of introduction to his entertain-
ment, hebegins totake offhis gloves, commencingwith that
on hisright hand. As Bocn asitis fairly off, he takes it inthe
righthand, waves thehand wiMi a careless gesture, and the
glove is gone. Hobegins to takeoffthe other, walking as he
doessobehindhistable, wherein his wand is laid. Tbe left
hand glove beingremoved, is rolled up into aball, and trans-
ferred from the right hand to the- left, which is immediately
closed. The right hand picks upthe wand, and with ]t touches
the left, which beingslowlyopened, thesecond glove ii found
tohave also disappeared.
The disappearance ofthefirstgloveis effected by means ofa
pieceofcord elastic,attached to the back oftbe waistcoat, and
thencepassingdown the sleeve. This should be of such a
lengthas to allow the gloveto he drawn down and put on the
hand, and yet topull it smartly up thesleeve and outot sight
when released. Itis desirableto haveahem round the wrist
oftheglove, and to pass theelasticthroughthis like the cord
ofabag, as itthereby draws thewrist portion ofthe glove to-
gether, and causes itto offerlesshindranceto its passage up
tbesleeve. Upontakingoffthe glove, the performerretainsit
in his hand, andletsitgo when he pleases. He must, how-
ever, takecareto straighten hisarm before letting itslip, as
otherwise the elastic willremain comparativelj'- slack, and the
glovewill, instead ofdisappearing with aflash, dangle ignom-
iniously from the coat-cutf.
The lefthandgloveisgotrid of by palming. The perfor-
mer, standing behind histableasalready mentioned, rolling
the glovebetween his hands, and quickly twisting the fingers82 PARLOK AND STAGE MAGIC.
inside, so as to bringifcinto more manageable form, pretends
to place itin his leftLand, butreally palmsitin bis right. Ha
now lowersthe right Landto pick up hiswand, and as tbe
hand reaches thetable, dropsthe glove on the servante. He
now touches tie lefthand with thewand, in due courseopen-
ing the hand and showing that theglovehas departed.
Some performers vanish both glovesby means ofelastic, one
up the right Lleeve, the other up the left, butindoingso they
offendagainst one of the cardinal ])recepts of the art, viz.,
neverto perform the same trick twice in succession by the
same means. The audience having seen the manner of the
first disappearance, areallon the alert, and are not unlikely
onthesecond occasiontoguessthe means employed. If, on
the otherhand, the performeradoptstheplan indicated above,
the two modes of producing the effect being different, each
rendersitmore difficult to discover thesecretofthe other.
A DOZEN BABIES FKOM A HAT.
Among thethings availableforproduction, maybe enumer-
ated dolls, ofwhich a dozen, each eight or nine inches in
height, may be produced from aborrowedhat. The dolls for
this purposeareof colored muslin, stretched over a frame-
workorsketeton ofspiral wire, after thefashion of the multi-
plyingballs, and may be compressed vertically toa thickness
ofaboutthree-quarters ofan inch. Adozen of them may be
packed within the hollow cannon-ball, described above, re-
suming theirshape as soon asthey are released.
THE TEANSFOEMED HANDKEECHIEF.
The perforaier comesforward, requesting theloanofa lady's
handkerchief. While itis beingprocured, he produces from
the hair orwhiskersofone ofthe spectatorsalemon, which he
carelessly trusts under somebody'snose in order to prove its
genuineness. (The lemon, which, ofcourse, waspalmed, isa
prepared one, from which the pulp has beenscooped out, and
which contaius a substitutehandkerchief, socannotbehanded
forexamination.) Tuxuiugfor an iuatant towards the stage,
he tossesthe lemon tohis assistant,whocatchesit, and places
iton the table. Themomentary turn from the audience en-
ubles Lim toget from under Lis waistband, and to palm, a
little bundle of p)ieces of cambric, each about four inches
square. Taidng the borrowedhandkerchief, herolls itinto a
b;dl between hishands, and hands it (apparently)tosome one
to hoLl, in reality substitutingthe torn pieces ofcambric. He
then turns, and takes a fewpacestowards histable, meanwhile
tucking the handkerchief under his waistcoat, and takingPAELOU AND STAGE MAGIC.
therefromin place ofit astripofcambric, aboutfourorfivefeet
long andfour incheswide, rolled up into a small compass.
Thisbepalms. Suddenly turning back, he exclaims, "My
dear sir, whatare"you doingwiththat handkerchief ? I never
told you to do that !"The innocentholderlooks up in astonish-
ment, but the performercontinues, ''Will you have the-kind-
nessto open thehankerchief?" He does so, and finds it in
pieces. After a little chaff about making him pay for the
damage, the performersays, " Well, I suppose I must show
you how to restoreit." Herehe again takes the pieces, and
folds them together, "See, you musttake them as I do, and
rub them verygently with the left hand." Substituting the
prepared slip, he hands tohim but, whenhe begins to rub,
exclaimsagain, "Dearme, dear ;me ! whatare you doingnow ?
Itold youthelefthand. Youare making matters worse than
ever." The handkerchiefisnowfoundin a long strip. The
performerendeavourstoinduce the owner to accept in this
s n h a a t p u e r , all w y hi o c b h jec h t e s, as a s n u d res beg h s er th i a s t t i h t e m n a e y wes b t e r s e t s y t le or ; ed bu t t o s i h t e s ,
original condition. Forthatpurposethe performer, rolling the
slipintoaball, placesitinhis pistol and rams it down with
hiswand. Appearingtoreflectforamoment,he says, "Where
s " h B al a l n I g f ! ir " e g i o t e ? s t A he h p ! is s t u o p l, po a s n e d I t a h i e m pe a r t f t o h r e me l r e , mo t n ak o i n ng the a t k a n b i l f e e ? , "
cuts the lemon all round (flingingthe rind carelessly on the
stage), and produces the substitute handkerchief (professedly
the original) Hecomes forward to the audiencewith it, and,
afterthanIcing the owner, makesagesture ofreturningit;but,
as ifstruck l)yasuddenthought, checkshimself, and says, "I
afraid it suitlls riither strong ofthe lemon. Willyouallowme
toscent itfnvyou? Ihave some capitalEau deColognehere."
Going back tohis table, he placesthehandkerchiefona plate,
and poursscenton it, turning ashe doesso tothe owner, and
saying, "Please tell me when you think there is enough."
While his back is turned, theattendant, whohas been stand-
ingby holding alighted candle, with a mischievous wink at
thecompany, tilts thecandle, and sets the handkerchief on
fire. The performerapologizes for his assistant's stupidity,
butappeals to the company tobearwitnessthatit was no fault
ofhis, and bringingforwardthe plate, with the handkerchief
still blazing, ofi"ersit to the owner. She, of course, declines
to takeit, andtheperformer, remarking, "You don'tlike itin
t p h l i a s ce c s on t d h i e ti p o l n ate ; w o e n ll L , it t e lu fl u o , or, su t p el p l o i s n e g I th p e ut ass i i t st i a n nt pa t p o er p f u o t ry it ou o , n "
thetable, andruns otfto get the paper. Theattendanttries t©
liftofftheplate, butfindsthatitburns his fingers. However,
afterseveralattempts, gettingtheplate a little nearer to th«
tableat each, he n^iana^esto place it on the table. Th® littlePAKLOK AND STAGE MAGIO
by-play amnsestheaudience, and givestlie performerthe few
moments whichhereqnires for hia preparations behind the
scenes. Comingforwardwithasheetofcleanwhitepaper, he
wraps therein the still blazing handkerchief, crushing it to-
gethersoasto extinguishtheflames. Heoffersthe pocket so
madetothe lady, who, believingthatitcontains nothing but
ashes, declines to receiveit, when the professor tearing the
paper apart, pulls out the handkerchief perfectly restored,
while the burntfragmentshavevanished.
Theeffectlastmentioned isproducedby the use ofa double
paper, pasted togetherround threethree ofits side, and thus
formingakindofbagin the centre. In this bag the perfor-
mer, duringhismomentary absence fromthe stage, places the
genuinehandkerohief, folded so as to occupy as little space
possible. The handkerchief, therefore, lies betweenthe two
^ thicknesses of the paper, andwhen the rolled up packet is
torn open fromoutside, may be removed without disturbing
theburntfragments, which stillremain insidethepaper.
Whereitisnecessary, as forthe purposeofthistrick, to in-
t s r h o o d u u l c d e b s e o m m a e d a e rti a c s le f i o n l t l o ow a s l : — em A on l , em t o h n e w n i e t c h e a ss t a h r i y ck jp h r a e r p d ara r t i i n o d n
should be selected, andaplug-shapedpiece, aboutan inchand
ahalfin diameter, shouldbescoopedwith asharp knife out
ofoneend. Thepulp may now beremoved, leaving therind
amereshell, while the pieceoriginally cut out will f6rm a
kindofstopper, whichmaybe secured in its place by thrust-
ingahair-pin or piece ofwirethroughthefriiitand plugfrom
sideto side, and nippingoffthe ends flushwiththeoutersur-
face. When the performer exhibitsthelemon, he takes care
to have the cut end inwards towards his palm; sothat the
thecircularmark is concealed bythe fingers, and when he
desires to produce the handkerchiefhe cuts the opposite end.
ro PASS A BOEEOWED EING INTO AN EGG.
This is an (.ffeciive conclusion to a ringtrick. The necessary
apparatus consists of two wooden egg-cups, inside one of
which, at the bottom, is cut a mortice or slot just large
enough to receive one-half the circumference of a lady's
ring, and to hold it in an upright position. The second
egg-cup has no speciality, being, in fact, merely a dummy,
designed to be handed to the audience for inspection. An
ordinary button-hook, or a piece of wire bentinto the shape
of abutton-hook, completesthe preparation.
' We will assume that the performer has, in the course of
one or other tricks already described, secretly obtained pos-
session of a borrowed ring, which the audience believe still
(t'rebiain in some place or apparatus in which they havePARLOR AND STA^E MAGIC. 85
seen it d«]^osited. The operator, retiring for an instant, re-
turns with a plate of eggs in one hand, and the dummyegg-
cap in the other. Thespecialegg-cup, with the ring already
in the mortice, is meanwhileplacedeitherunderhiswaistband,
orin one or other ofhis pochettes, so as to be instantly get-at-
able wheu required. Placingthe eggs on the table, he hands
round the egg-cup for inspection, that all may observe that
it is wholly without prepiiration, and iu turning to place the
ogg-cup on thetable, he substitutes for itthe one which con-
taius the ring, but which the audience naturally believe to be
that which theyhavejust examined.
Bringing forward the plate ofeggs, the performer requests
the company to choosewhicheverthey please. While theyare
makingtheir selection, he carefully turns back his sleeves,
showing indirectly that his hands are empty. Taking the
chosenegg with thetips of his fingers, and showingit on all
sides, toprove that there is no preparation about it, he says.
"Now, ladies and gentlemen, you have seen me placethe ring
which this lady has kindly lent me in 'so-and-so" " (according
tothe place where itis supposedtobe). " You haveselected,
ofyourown free choice, this particular egg amonghalf-a-dozen
others. Iam about to command the ring to leave the place
where it now is, andto pass intom the very centre of this egg.
Ifyou think the eggis prepared vny way, itis open to you
eveunow to choose another. You are all satisfied that the egg
hasnot been tampered with? Well, then, just observe still
thatI havenothing iu my hands. I have merely to say, 'One,
two, three ! Pass?' Thej-ing isnow in the egg.' Atthe word,
"Pass," the performer taps one end ofthe egg with his wand,'
j " us I t d h i a d rd no e t n i o n u t g e h nd to to cr h a i c t k it it qu s i l t i e gh s t o ly h . ard "D ; e bu a t r it me is ,!' of he no sa c y o s n- ;
sequence," Stepping to the table, he places the egg, loiih the
crackedenddownwards, in the prepared egg-cup, using just
sufficient pressure to force the egg well down upon the ring,
the projecting portion ofwhichistherebyforced into the egg,
Tiie egg beiag already cracked, avery slight pressure is ,suf-
ficient. Bringing for\v;ird the egg inthe cup, tiiehookalready
mentioned, ;ind a table-napkin, he taps the topof the egg
HUiartly with his wand, so as to crack it, and offeringthe hook
to tiie owner ofthe ring, requests herto see whether her pro-
perty is notinthe egg. The ring is immediately fished ont,
and being v/iped upon the napkin, is recognized asthatwhich
was borrowed. The apparatus in which itwas originally placed
is, onbeing examined, found empty.86 PARLOK AND STAGE MAGIC.
TO PASS A KING FBOM THE ONE HAND TO EITHER FINGEE
OF THE OTHER HAND.
This is a veryold aud simple trick, butithas puzzledmany,
and comesinappropriately in this place, as affording another
illustration of the use ofthe "flyingring." The only addition-
al preparation consists ofa little hook, such nsis used tofasten
ladies'^4resses, sewn to the trousersofthe performerjust level
with the fingers ofhis right hand when hanging by liis side,
butalittle behind the thigh, so as to be covered by the coat-
tail. Borrowing a wedding-ring, the performer receives it in
his righthand, immediately transferring it in appearance (as
iu thelast trick) to his left hand. Showing in place of it the
flying ring, which is already in his left hand, he drops the
righthand to his side, andslips the borrowed ring on thelittle
hook. Then remarking, '•Youall see this ring, which I have
justborrowed. Iwill make it invisibly pass to myrighthand,
andon towhichever finger of that hand you may please to
select." Here he waves his right hand with an indicative
gesture, thus indirectly showing that he has nothing therein,
and again lets the hand fall carelessly hy his side. Assoon as
the fingeris chosen, he slips the borrowed ring upon the end
ofthat particular finger, immediately closing the hand soas to
conceal it, andholds outthe hand at arm's length in front of
him. Then saying, One, two, three Pass !"he releasesthe
!
flying ring, and, opening both hands, shows that the left is
emptj^ and that theborrowed ring has passed to the selected
finger on the right hand.
The hookmay, if preferred, be dispensed M-ith, the ring be-
ing simply dropped into the pocheiie on the right side, and
agaiji saken from thence when required.
TO INDICATE ON THEDIAL OFAWATCHTHEHOURSECRETLY
THOUGHT OFBYANY OFTHECOMPANY.
The performer, takingawatch inthe one hand, andapencil
in theother, proposes to give a specimen of his powers of
divination. Forthis purpose herequests any one present to
write down, or, if preferred, merely tothinkof, any_ hour he
pleases. This having been done, the performor, M'ithout ask-
ingany questions, proceeds to tap with the pencil different
hoars on the dialofthe watch, requestingthe person who has
thought ofthehour to mentiallycount thetaps, beginningfrom
t}i,e number ofthehourhefJiougldof. (Thus, ifthehour he thought
ofwere "nine," he must count the first tap as "ten," the
second as " eleven," and so on.) When, according tn this
mode ofcounting, he reaches thenumber "twenty," he is to
say " Stop," when the pencil ofthe perfornier will be foundPAELOE AND STAGE MAGIC. 37
restingprecisely uponthathourofthe dialwhich he thought
of.
This capital littletrick depends upona simple arithmetical
principle ; butthe secretis sowell digiiised that it is very
rarely discovered. All that the performer has to do is to
count in his own mind the taps that he gives, calling the
first "one," the second "two," and so on. The first seven
taps may be given upon any figures of thedial indifferently;
indeed, they might equally well be given on the back of
the watch, or anywhere else, without prejudice to the ulti-
mate result. But the eighth tap must be given invariably
on the figure "twelve" of the dial, and thenceforward the
pencil must travel through the figures seriatim, butin reverse
order,-"eleven," "ten," "nine," and so on. By followingthis
process it will be found at the tap. which, counting from the
number the spectator thought of, will make twenty, the pen-
cil will have traveled back to that very number. A few
illustrations will make this clear. Let us suppose, for in°
stance, that the honr the spectator thought of was twelve.
In this case he will count the first taj) of the pencil asthir-
teen, the second as fourteen, and so on. Theeighth tap in
this case will complete the twenty, and the reader will re-
member that, according to the directions we have given, he
is at the eighth tap alwaj^s to let his pencil fall on thenum-
ber twelve so that when the spectator, having mentally
reaches the
;number
twenty, cries, "Stop," the pencil willbe
pointing to thatnumber. Suppose, again, the number thought
of was "eleven," Here the first tap will be counted as
"twelve," and the ninth (at which, according to the rule,
the pencil will be resting on eleven) will make the twenty.
Takingagain the smallest number that can be thought of,
"one," here thefirst tapwill be counted by the spectator as
"two," and the "eighth," at whichthe pencil reaches twelve,
will count as "nine." Henceforth the pencil will travel re-
gularly backward round the dial, and at the nineteenth tap
(completing the twenty, as countedby the spectator) willhave
justreached the figure " one."
The arthmetical reasonforjthiscurious result, though simple
enough in itself, is somewhat difficult to explain on paper,
and weshall therefore leave itas an exercise for the ingenuity
ofourreaders,
THE " HEADS ANDTAILS" TEICKS.
This is a pretty little trick, ofan unpretending nature, but
ofvery good effect, especiallyif introduced in a casual and
apparently ea;^e)npo?'emanner. Theperformerborrows, orpro-
ducesfrou his own pocket, four penny-pieces. Placing themPABLOE AND STAGE MAGIC.
upon the table, he requests some onetomake a pile of them,
all one way, say "tail'"upwards. He nextrequests 'the same
orother person toturn overthe-pile so made, withoutdisturb-
iugthe relativeposition ofthe coins, and announces Avith an
airof supernatural knowledgethat they will now be found
"head" upwards. This appearssorediculouslyobvious, that
theaudiencenaturally observe (with moreorless straightfor-
wardness of expression) that "anyfool could tell that."
"Pardonme," saysthe performer, "itis not quite such a
simplematterasyou think. Iverymuchdoubtwhether any
ofyou could do as much. Iwill placethe coins again watch_
meascloselyas youplease. Iwill place themas before ;— Tail,"
tail,,tail, tail. Isthat fairly done? Now I will turn them
over." He does so, lettingthetips of his lingers rest upon
them. "Whataretheynow ? " Ageneralchorusreplies, "All
heads, ofcourse!" Butonexamination it isfound that only
three are "heads,"and one "tail." Again he arranges them,
placingthem this timealternately—head, tail, head, tail. He
turnsthemover. The natural order (beginning from below)
would again behead, tail, headtail ; but they arefound tobe
head, tail, tail, tail. Againheplaces them, tail, tail, tail, head.
"Whenturnedoverthey should be tail, head, head, head, but
arefound to betail, head, alternatel3^
Thesecretlies isthe useofa prepared penny, consisting of
similar halves (in the case above described two " tails")
solderedtogether, soas to be "tail" on eitherside. This the
performerpalms in hisrighthand. After first going through
theoperation withthe genuine coins, as above, lie picks them
upwithhislefthand, and apparently transferring them to the
right, reallytransfersthree ofthem only. He then performs
the trickwith theseand the prepared coin, when theapparent-
ly miraculous result above described becomes a matter of
course.
Itisbestnotto repeat this tricktoo often, and alittle practice
isnecessary in orderto be able to return the three genuine
coinsneatly to the left hand (in whichthe fourth borroM'ed
coins must be retained tbroaghout the trick), at the same
time secretly retaining your own. It is a frequent oc-
currence foroneorotherofthecompany, imagining that tke
seemingwonder is,^ in some unexplained way, aresultof some
natural principle, torequest tobe allowed to try for himself.
Itis obviousthat, undersuch circumstances, itwould not do
to hand him theprepared coin, and hence the necessity for
somequick and natural method of again getting the four
genuine coinstogether.
The trick may bebroughtto ;iu effective conclusion as fol-
lows Afteryou have gotrid of the double-faced penny, you
may m:ay continue, "Perhaps it is a little too complicated forTARLOn AND STAGE MAGIC. 89
w y o o n u 't wi e t v h en fo t u u r rn co i i t ns ove ; r s .' u ' ppo P s l e ac w i e ng t o ry ne it o w f it t h he on g e enu o i nl n y e , p a e n n d ce I
on themiddleofthe rightpalm,,which yoa hold out horixon-
tally before you, you draw special ai.tention to the fact that
the coin is (say) " tail"upwards. Quickly covering itwith the
other hand, yoa say, "What is itnow?" "Tail,"is the reply.
"Wrong again !" you say, and, lifting up the hand, show
thatthe coin hasthistimevanishedaltogether. Thismysterious
disappearance is effected as follows : When yon apparently
cover the coinwith the left hand, you bring the hands to-
gether -with a quick lateral motion as though sliding the one
across theother. This shoots the c in from the palm down
theopposite sleeve, the motion beingsoquickthatthe keenest
eye cannot detectit. Thislittlesleightis by no meansdifficult,
andis well worthy ofacquirement, as it may be introduced
with equal effectin many tricks.
A HALF DOLLAR BEING SPUN UPON THE TABLE, TO TELL BLIND-
FOLDED WHETHER IT FALLS HEAD OR TAIL UPWARDS.
You borrowahalfdollar, and spin it, or invite some other
person to spinit on thetable(whichmustbewithoutacloth).
You allow it to spin itself out, and immediately announce,
without seeing it,whetherithas fallen head or tail upwards.
This mayberepeated any numberoftimeswith the same re-
sult, though you maybe bliadfolded, and placed atthefurther
endofthe apartment.
Thesecretlies in the use ofahalfdollarofyourown, on one
face ofwhich (say onthe "tail" side) you have cutatthe ex-
treme edge alittlenotch, thereby causing a minute point or
tooth ofmetal to projectfrom that side ofthe coin. If a coin
so prepared be spun on the table, and should chance to go
down withthe notched side upwards, itwillrun downlike an
ordinary coin, with a long continuous "whirr,"' the soiind
s g h r o o u w l i d ng ru fa n in d te o r wn an w d it f h ain t t h e e r n t o il t l ch it ed fi s n i a d l e ly do c w e n a w s a es rd ; s, bu t t he i f f ric i - t
tion of the point against the table will reduce this final
whirr to half its ordinary length, and the coin will finally
go down with a sort of "flop." The difference of sound is
not sufficiently marked to attract the noticeofthespectators,
but is perfectly distinguishable by an attentiveear. If, there-
fore, you have notched the coinon the "tail"side, andit runs
down slowly, you will cry "tail ;" if quickly, "head."
If you professedly use a borrowed half dollar, you must
adroitly change itforyourown, under pretence of showing
howto spinit, orthe like.
Yoa shoutd notallowyour audience toimaginethatyou are
guided by the sound ofthe coin,as ifonce they have the clue,90 PAKLOR AND STAGE MAGiC
theywilleasilylearn to distinguishthe two sounds. Theyare
not, however, likelyto discoverthesecret ofthenotch, and if
anyoneprofessesto havefound out the trick, you may, by
againsubstitutingan unprepared halfdollar, safely challenge
him to perform it,
SEVEBAL PEESONS HAVING EACH DKAWN TWO CARDS, WHICH HAVE
BEEN EETUENED AND SHUFEEED, TO MAKE EACH COUPLE
APPEAE IN SUCCESSION, ONE AT THE TOP AND THE
OTHEE AT THE BOTTOM OF THE PACK.
This capitaltrickwasalso a greatfavoritewith Comto, who
christenedit, for reasonsbest knownto himself, by the poet-
icalnameofthe "TheLadies'Looking-glass."
The cards havingbeen freelyshufGled,youinvitea person to
draw two cards, allowinghim freechoice. Opening the j^ack
in themiddle, youask him to placehis cards together in the
opening. Youbringthem to the top by the pass, make the
hrst ofthefalseshuffles, and conclude byleavingthemon the
top. Offerthecardstoa secondperson to draw a couple, but
in openingthe cardsforhimto return them, make the pass,
so thatthey may beplaceduponthe pairalready drawn, which
are therebybroughttothemiddle of the pack. Again make
thepass, soas to bringallfour to thetop. Makeanotherfalse
shuffle, leavingthosefouron the top, and offerthe cards to a
fourth i^erson, each time repeating the process. Make the
falseshuffleforthelasttime, soastoleave all the drawncards
inabodyon the top of the pack, with one indifferent card
above them. The audiencebelievethat they are thoroughly
dispersed, andyour first care mustbe to strengthen that im-
pression. Ifyou are expertin card-palming, you may-palm
thenine cards, and give the pack to be shuffledbyoneofthe
s sp o e m c e ta r t i o s r k s o ; f b t u h t e t c hi o s m i p s a n n o y t n a o b t s i o c l i u n t g el t y he n a ec b e s s e s n a c r e y, of an jD d art th o e f re th i e s
pack. You remark, "You haveall seen the cards placed in
differentpartsofthe pack, and the whole have been since
thoroughly shuffled. The drawncards are therefore at this
momentscatterediudifferent parts ofthe pack. lean assure
youthatIdo not myselfknowwhatthecards are" (this is the
B o l n i l g y ht i , t s e i m mp of l / e ac m i ov in em t e h n e t w , ho I l s e ha s l e l nt m e a n k c e e) t;he " m bu a t pp y e e a t r , , i b n y c a oup v l e e r s y -
as theywere drawn, atthetop and bottomofthepack." Then,
showing the bottomcard, you ask, "Is^thisanybody's card? "
The reply is in the negative. You next show the top card,
and makethe sameinquiry. Whileyou do so, you slip the
little fingerunder thonextcard, andas you replace the card
you liavejust shown, makethe pass, thus bringing both cards
to the bottomofthe pack. Meanwhile, youaskthelast personPARLOR AND STAGE MAGIC. 91-
who drew whathiscards were, Wheu he names them, yo\i
"rufle"thecards, andshow him firstthebottomand thenthe
iop card, whichwill be the twohe drew. Whileexhibitingthe
top card, whichwillbe the two he drew. While exhibiting
the top card, take theopportunity to slip the little finger of
the lefthand immediately underthecardnextbelowit; and as
you replace the top one makes the pass at that point. You
now hav-e the third couple placed topandbottom. Make the
drawer name them, rafflethecards, and, and showthemas be-
fore, again makingthepass to bring the card just shownat
top, with thatnextfollowing, tothebottom of the pack, which
will enableyou to exhibitthe secondcouple in like manner.
These directions sound a little complicated, but if followed
withthe cards will befound simple enough.
TO CHANGK THE FOUR ACES, HELD TIGHTLY BY * PEBSON, INTO
FOUR INDIFFERENT CARDS.
This is amostbrillianttrick, and puzzles even adepts in
card-conjuring. In combinationwiththe " Shower of Aces,"
which nextfollows, it was one of the principal facts of the
ElderConus, and subsequentlj^ of thecelebrated Comte.
The trickis performedas follows: You begin by announcing
thatyou require theassistance ofsome gentleman who never
believesanythingthat heistold. The audience generally take
thisas ajoke, butforthepurposeofthis trickitisreallyrather
an advantage,to havethe assistanceof a person who will take^
nothingfor granted, and willbe satisfied withnothing short of
oclardemonstration ofany factwhich you desire him to con-
cede. Some littlefun may be made in the selection, but a
volunteerhaving atlastbeen approved of, you request him to
stepforward toyour table. Selectingfrom the pack the four
aces, youask himto sayaloud what cards those are, at the
same time holding them upthat allmay seethem. Then lay-
ing the aces face upwards onthetable, youhand him the re-
mainderofthecards, and askhimtoascertain and state to the
company, whether'there is any peculiarity about the cards,
and whether, in particular, there are any other aces in the
pack. •His reply isin.the negative. You then ask whether
any other person wouldlike to examine the pack. Allbeing
satisfied, you take the pack, face downwards, in your left
hand^ and, picking up the four aces with the right, place
them on, the top, at the same moment slightly shuffling the
cards. Then takingthe aces one by one (without showing
them) youplace themface downwards on thetable. Address-
ingthe personassistingyoxi, yousay, "I place these fouraces
on th.etable. Youadmit that they are the four aces," Your
victim, nothavingseenthefaces of the cards sinceJhejwere•
\
92 PARLOK AND STAOE MA6^I0.
replacedon the pack, ftndhavingnoticedtheslightsoundpre-
dueed byyourrufflingthe cards, will, in all probability, say
thathedoesnot admitanythingof the sort.• "Why," you re-
y pl o y u , a " ga y i o n u , h i a f ve yo o u nl l y i j k u e. s " tse T e u n rn t i h n e g m ;th b e u m t f I a 'l c l e s u h p o w w ard t s h , em yo t u o
showthatthefourcardsreally arethe aces, andagainreplaces
themonthepack,rufflethecards, and deal out the four aces
face downwrrds as before. You again ask your assistant
whetherheiscertainthistime thatthefourcardson the table
aretheaces. Hemaypossiblybe still incredulous, but if he
professeshimselfsatisfied, you askhim whathewill bet that
theee cards are really the aces, and that you have not
conjuredthemawayalready. Hewillnaturally be afraid to
bet,andyouremark, "Ah, I could tell by the expression of
yourcountenancethatyou werenot quite satisfied. I'mafraid
youaresadlywantinginfrith, butasIcan'tperform thetricli,
forthesakeofmyown reputation, until you are thoroughly
convinced, I|willshowyou the cards once more." This yon
do, and again replace them on the pack, but before doiuj^
so, slip the little finger of the left hand under the top card
of the pack. Again take off the aces with the finger and
thumb of the right hand, carrying with them at the same
this top card. Then with a careless gesture of the right
hand toward the audience, so as to show them the face of
the undermost card (theoneyou have just added), you con-
tinue, "Ireallycan'timagine whatmakes yon so incredulou.s—.
Herearetheaces" (you replacethefive cards on the pack)
"Itakethem onebyone, so, and place them on the table.
Surelythereisnopossibilityofsleight-of-hand here. Are you
all satisfiedthatthesearereallythe acesnow ?" Theaudience
having noted, as you intended them to do, that the .fifth or
bottom card was not an ace, naturally conclude that other
cards havebeenby somemeans substitutedfor the aces, and
when 3'ou askthe question for the lasttime, you are met by v.
generalshoutof "No !" You say, withan injured expressio]),
"Eeally, ladiesand gantlemen,ifyou areall such unbelievcn;,
I may as well retire atonce. Ishould hopethat, at.least, you
will havethe grace to apologize for your unfounded sus];i-
cions." Then turningto the person assisting you, you con-
tinue, "Sir, as every act ofmine appears to be an object of
suspicion, perhapsyoit will kindly show the company that
thoseare the aces, and replace them yourselfon the top ofthe
pack."
Thishe does. But during the courseofthe above little diss-
Gussion, you have taken the opportunity to count ofi", and
palm in yourrighthand, the five top cards ofthe pack. Itis
hardlynecessary toobservethatwhile doing this, you must
scrupulously refrainfrom lookingat your hands. The modePARLOR AND STAGE MAGIC.
ofcountingisto push forward the cards one by one with the
thumb, and tocheckthem with the third finger, of the left
hand. Averylittle practice will enableyou to count off any
numberofcardsbyfeel,-in this mannei-,withthe greatestease.
Whentheacesarereplacedon the topofthepack, you transfer
thepackfrom the left to the right hand, thus bringing the
palmed cards above them, then placingthewholepackon the
table, face downwards, inquire, "Willyoube good enough to
tellme wherethe aces are now?" The answer is generally
very confident, "Onthe top of the pack." Without taking
thepack in your hand, youtakeolf, oneby one, the four top
cards, and lay them face downwardson thetable, as before
then takingup thefifth card and exhibitingittothe company,;
observe, "Yo see thereareno moreaces left, but if you like
you can look through the pack.'' 80saying, you take up the
cards, and run th'im rapidlyoverwith theirfaces towards the
spectators, taking pare, however, not to expose either of the
fiveatthetop, fourofwhicharethegenuineaces. Then ad-
addressing your assistant, you say, "The company being at
lastsatisfied, perhapsyouwillbegood enoughto place your
hand onthosefourcards, andholdthemastightlyaspossible."
Then, holdingthe packin thelefthand, you take between th«
firstfingerandthumb oftherighthand the top card of the
pack, beingthe only oneleftofthefiveyoupalmed andplaced
over theaces, and say, "Now Iam going to take four indif-
ferentcardone afterthe other, and exchange them for thefour
aces inthisgentleman's hand. Observe the simplieity ofthe
process. Itake the cardthat first comes to hand'' (here you
show theface ofthecard youhold, whichwe. will suppose to
be the seven ofdiamonds), "I don'treturnitto thepack, even
foramoment, but merelytouch the handwith it, and it be-
comes the ace of(say) spades" (whichyoushowittobe). At
thewords " return it to the pack," you move the card with
whatis taken tobemerelyan indicative gesture, towards the
pack, and at thesameinstant *'change" itbythethirdmethod
forthe top card ofthe pack, whichis oneoftheaces.
You now have the sevenofdiamondsatthetop ofthe pack,
with the remainingthreeaces immediatelyfollowing it. You
must not show this seven ofdiamonds a second time, and it is
t
of
he
d
i
o
e
i
fo
n
r
g
e
t
n
h
e
is
ce
i
s
s
sa
as
ry
fo
t
l
o
lo
g
w
et
s
i
:
—to
Y
n
o
t
u
of
re
t
m
h
a
e
r
w
k
a
,
y.
"To
Th
s
e
ho
n
w
ea
y
t
o
e
u
st
th
w
at
ay
I
takethe cardsjust asthey come, I will give them a suffle,"
which you do asindicatedfor thefirstofthe "false shuffles,"
subject to the modification following. Pass intotheright.hand
firsttop card (the seven of diamonds) alone, and upon this
card pass the nextthree, which arethreeaces, then the rest of
thecards indifferently. When all the cards are thus passed
into theright liand; shuffle them again anyhow, but take carePAELOR AND STAGE MAGIC.
to concludeby bringing tlie fourlowest carks to the top you
willnowhave the three aces uppermost, and the seve;n of
diamondsin the fourth place. Taking off the top card, and
drawingit sharplyoverthehandof theperson assisting, yon
show thatit also is an ace, andin like manner with the next
card, making, ifyou choose, afalse shuffle between. After the
third acehasbeen shown, make a false shufiSe, and finally
leaveat thetop the lastace, with onecardaboveit. Thismay-
be effected bybringing upfrom thebottomin cancluding the
shufflethe two bottom cards, instead ofthelastonly. Taking
thecardbetweenthe thumbandfirstfingerofthe right hand,
and showingit withapparent carelessnesss, so as to give the
companytheopportunityofremarkingthat it is not an ace,
you replaceit onthepackfor an instant, saying, "We have
hadthreeaces, Ithink. Which is that is wanting?" Here
y di o a u mo gl n a d n s c , e d T o h w e n n a t t h t e he ca a r c d es tha o t n I t h h o g ld ta m b u le s . tch " a O ng h e ! t t o he th a e ce ac o e f
of diamonds." You have meanwhile effected the change,
and turning up the card you hold, you show that it is the
ace ofdiamonds.
You may, ifyou please, use the first instead of the third
methodofmaking the "change*' in performingthistrick, but
the first method demands a higherdegree ofdexterity tomake
it equally deceptive ; and the movement used in the third
method has in this instancethe advantage of appearing to
be thenaturalaccompanimentofthe words of the performer.
A CAED HAVING BEEN THOUGHT OF, TO MAKE SUCH CABD VANISH
TEOM THE PACK, AND BE DISCOVEEED WHEEEVER THE
PEEFOEMEE PLEASES.
This trickshould be performedwithtwenty cards only. You
deal the cards, face upwards, inthreepacks, requesting one of
thecompany tonote a card, and to remember which heap itis.
When you have dealtthe three heaps, you inquire in which
heapthe chosen card is, andplace the other two heaps, face
upwards as theylie, upon thatheap, then turn over the cards,
nnd deal n^ain in like manner. You again inquire which
1 1 e ef a o p re t , he an c d ho d s e e a n l c a a g r a d i i n 'j n fo o r w t i h n e , pl t a h c i e rd th t a i t me h , ea w p h u e n n der th m e ost car a d s
thought ofv/illbe the first carddealt of one or other of the
three heaps. You have, therefore, onlytobear in mind the
first card of each heap to know, when the f)roper heap is
pointedout, whatthecard is, You donot, however, disclose
your Icnowledga, but gather up thecards as before, with the
(lesign;ited heep undermost Avhen thecards areturned over,
theheapnaturally b'com s ;uppermost, and the chosen card,
being theftrstcard ofthat heep, is now onthetop cardof thePAELOR AND STAGE MAGIC. 95
pack. You palm this card, and hand the remaining cards to
be shuffled. Having now gained not only the knowledge,
buttheactual possession, ofthe chosen card, you can finish
thetiick in avariety ofways. You may, when the pack is
returned replacethe card onthe top, and givingthepack, face
upwards, to a personto hold, strike outofhis hand all but the
chosen card, oryou may, if you prefer it, name the chosen
card, and announcethatitwillnowleavethe pack,and fly in-
toaperson's pocket, orany otherplace you choose to name,
where, it being alreadyin yourhand, you can very easily find
it. Avery effectivefinish is produced by taking haphazard
anycardfrom the pack, and announcingthat to bethe chosen
card, andonbeingtold thatitis thecard, apologizingforyour
mistake, andforthwith "changing", itby the fifth orsome
otherm — ethod to therightone. Some funmayalsobecrea — tedas
follow: You name, inthefirst instance, awrong card say,
theseven ofhearts. On being toldthat thatwas not the card
thoughtof, y.ou affect surprise, and inquire what the card
thoughtofwas. You are told, let ussay, theking ofhearts.
"Ah," you remark,"thatsettles it;I felt sure you were mis-
taken. You couldnot possiblehave seen the king of hearts,
foryou havebeen sittingonthatcard all the evening. Will
youoblige mebystandingup amoment, and, on the request
being complied with, you apparently take thecard(whichyou
havealreadypalmed) from offthechair onwhich the person
has been sitting. Themoreshrewdofthecompanymaycon-
jecture thatyouintentionally named the wrong card in order
toheighten the effectofthe trick ; buta fair proportion will
alwaysbefound tocredit yourassertion, andwillbelieve that
the victim had really, by some glamouron yourpart, been in-
duced toimagineliesaw a card which hewas actuallysitting
on.
Thistrickisfrequently performed with the wholethirty-two
cardsto thepiquetpack. The process and resultare the same,
save thatthecard thought ofmustbe oneof thetwentj^-'Seven
cards firstdealt. The chancesaregreatly against one of the
lastfive cards being thecard thoughtof, but in suchan event
the trickwould breakdown, as itwould in that case require
four deals insteadofthree tobring the chosen cardto the top
ofthepack.
Itisa good planto dealthefive surplus cards in a rowby
themselves, and after each deal, turnup one of them, and
gravelystudyit, as ifthese cards werein someway connected
withthetrick.96 Pi^BLOE AND STAGE MAQIG,
THE BOTTLE IMPS.
Theseare ininatnreblackbottles, about twoinches inheight,
with rounded bottoms, and so weighted that, like " tumbler"
dolls, they rise oftheir ownaccord to the perpendicular, and
will not restin anyother position. The proprietor, however,
has a charm bywhich he is able to conquer theirobstinateup-
rightness. For him, and for him only, they will consenttobe
laid down, and even to stand at an angle of45 degrees, though
theyagainrebel ifany otherperson attempts to make them do
the same.
The little bottles are made of papier mache, or some other
very light material, varnished black, thebottom ofeach being
ahalfbullet, spherical side downwards. The centre ofgravity
is therefore at thebottom ofthe bottle, which is thus compel-
led alwaj^s to stand upright. The performer, however, is pro-
videdwith one or two little pieces ofiron wire, ofsuch a sJze
andlength asjust to slip easily into the bottle. One of these
beingheld concealed between the finger and thumb, it is
veryeasy matter.,in picking up the bottle, to slip it in, and
this slightadditionalweight neutralizing theeffect of the half
bulletat the foot, causes the bottle to liestill in any position.
Having shown that thebottle is obedient to the word of com-
mand, the performer again picks it u}) with the neck between
thefirstand and second fingers and then, carelessly turning
itbottom upward, and thus allowingthe bit of wire to slip
againinto the palmof his hand, when he is able to again
tenderthe bottle for experiment. Partaking ofthe nature of
puzzleas wellas a conjuring trick, this little to}'' has amused
thousands, andifneatly manipulated, may be repeatedly ex-
hibited, evenbefore the same spectators, with little fear of
detection.OLD
GYPSeymadge;s
FORTUNE TELLE
H.
AND THE WITCHES KEY TO LUCKY DREAWIS.
EverypersontheirownFortuneTeller. 'WiththisBookyoucantellyourownor
anyperson'sfortunefarbetterthan anyAstrologer,Clarivoyant,orMediumcanfor
' y t T D y R S o h e o r e o u e l c u e s . l r a l e e i a m o t n — v s s g I c e W , t , h o ^ F f f a h o s t o o o r L r h r o e t e m y t t v u h o e h e n t a l u e , o e l t r a s s p r a y H r t e n o o u b d u x a t y s a e n h c b c c d a t t o a t n h l w n t j e y h d - a t e w o t o L u o h h o i r m a f n n a a y r t c e n n o o e s - d a u m w g i r i o o D l n e f f W l t a , i t e n h t l w r f i g h a p h e e e e p r a p s e r p t e h t H — e a r t n a l s o I a l n t o n t s n b o d t a y e e y — y , a y — D o i c o t a r u t h u h n e e d c e d s a e o i j L m s n h n w o i t o h r t a v a a w e s h i e t e n t s L s o t f e o t o u a t o o m t t n a m d u e C r a o a r r o r s k e m t C y — o p y e h — i l o g t a e u a t i g r t t i h h i e n m e g e v i — e a t L v D s r h h u e i e o s t c c it a h w t k. t f e i y i h t o f e H o e n I D c i t a A k r t n t r i r n e e o d y t n l a o o s l o o m , w o s f f *
t — T b i F D W v, n h e o a i - a i . e a r f n l y y l i t 3 d o S e s o h u v u e r o — a o n e r x r r n v F e Co L o e o I H f S y o r f i n i u o M t ' v t g C s u e o u e e n e h b n n n s w i a C a e i e l d f o l n u d y e f T l f d r d p a e l S e h i l — e i i n p r l a s f s t s i e t v o B d t — n e y e e o g r w k d o f i — h u y n b o u n e t e r y o g — h t M e w — e h a C t w B e r a o L h i w i r f o r r l e y r v i y i d t y t a e o o a h s o t r h u g e — M u ' — r r e " y s — t w — W l o y o i C h o w S u o l v a h h i k r l u e t e g a n r b t n o F r y o e M s h f u - o m w a e a t u h a r — r u h W o r p w r t y i o e i w i e h o a i l w d e - l u g t s D u o e o s o w e b n w i n C o M s e l l ' h o — t w y i l n o l i i w s l o t l n e h u l r s b y y v c e u e e o e c b t e e u r e i h H a s s m e a —s m M C e w r p f u x a i W t u p o t l r y h h l o l y u o r e o d a u —y M i t d l a n h - o w H — l i r e r — t u i l o r o r iW s n l t w y h b t o y t d e t — a a t e o i l o l l e n t t — u l b o r d s w P e F y h y o W o k o e S o o i o r n u u t u f r r t c r o h r e u c o , e w e a V n r L r s b r e u w s l H s i s f i c y h u e f i i o k a s b e n c ; u y - t y — t h !
infartthereisnoendtothemysteriousrevelationsunfoldedinitspages.
Drea Ti m l s l . sBo E o v k er i y st N h e e w Mo T s h t ou C g o h m t pl o e f t t e he in le de a t d a i i n l g o A f st a r n o y lo p g u e b r l s is is he l d ai o d n be F f or r t e u t n h e e T r e e l a l d in e g ri a n nd a
comprehensivemanner. Anythingthatyouareti'ouhledabout,oranythingyouwant
t> know can be solved and ascertained by consulting this great"Book.' Itisan
r w O e K i e r a s l a a r v l d c t e e l h b a r e e l , li o e s f k f d t o e F r r w a a e i t i w t r t e n u h ; m d w a a d i i l e yt t m r i h o l d s s e j e t t s o p h y s e e , a s n b h h d s O a i o p p p o l e p n u o n i t n y e n o e G a c u s a e r t s r t r t r e a a a e c w i k n a a n l d d t y e i y s . n p t s g l o e s t Y n e t h t ao h i . y e s u , v G Y e c o r o r r a e y u n a w r t B h f F o o e B u r o t e e t k h t y u e e o r l r w e n l h d e y t D ; h t o e e u h s s t e t K i r w u e n i d s y y i y u l o c l u w a t d r e n s r l i F l o f b t f u e i t o t a u s v l C r e l l e p r e C a a L t o g l r i m i e l f i - s e y s
'.uerciul and BusinessSpeculations. It pointsout clearly the pach to Prosperity,
Kiches,andHappine&s. Ifyouhave encounteredlosses,misfortune,ortreacheryof
friends,orhavebeenslightedby theone your affections havecentredupon,orhad
h hr a > d w l t u o ck Co i n n qljifie,er do a n t ot l. d i e s s t. pai S r h — e Ol wi d ll Gy i p ig s h y te M n ad up ge yo w u il r l p h a e t l h p wa y y o , u a t n h d ro t u e g a h c , h a y n o d u t t e o ll ov y e o r u -
com S e a a m l p l l o e bs C ta o c p l y es a , n a d n T d e t r u m r s n t t o he Ag t e i n de ts of se G n o t o b d y L m u a c i k l, tc p v o . s - t ar p d a s i y d o , u. for2SCvnts,orFive
Copiesto(meaddressfor$f.«5«. Askfourfriendstobuyoneeach andthuagetyour
o>vuBookfree. Aaaress__SI^YOCJNG, 173 GreeJiwic-Ji St., r.. V,e .
en
ULIi
n
U
rOH EV
Y
S
O
Et
CJ
f>
^
E
'
*
O
ll
'
E
^
M!mO i R m E0%AWTOMAN!
!
Book of 400 Secrets
OH HOW TO MAKE $10 A DAY WITHOUT CAPITAL
!
Golden Words to the Working Class.
Howto^etRich,orHowtoMakeMoney,isathoughtthatoccupies the attention
ofthehiimnnmindasmuch,ifnotmore,thananyochersubject. TheWonderfulBook
wenowplacewithinthereachofallseekingProhtableandRespectable Employment,
andwhoeverfollowstheinstructionthatwegiveinourBookisas certain of Success
andRichesasthattheSunrisesandsets. InourSaolcof Secrets we neverlose
Bightoftlaeideathatweareaddressingpersonswithoutcapital,thatverylarge class
ofourpeoplethatarebattlingandstruggling hardthrough life without apparently
t m b h e a e k i d W i r e n e p p g e r p e n t o s d h i e e e n n n t t s t l o c i a u o g n t n h y d t c i e l l s t e o t i a n r o h g l n e e y a r o i d f n o w l n i a o f y u a e . r i p s a E , l o m t o r a y l y V t e m e o a f k f k l e S y e a o c r s r t m e a o t r n t s t i h h n l o b y w us p a i i n t n t y e a s n p s c e e f r . o s r on t I , h f e y n m o s o n el f m v o a e l t l s t o e a w r n t d h w e h n d a o i t t -
rectiongivenintheliooUofSecrets,yotiwill?i>onhe in circumstances thatwill
e pr n o a c b e l s e s y i . s ni so to e b as e y co a m n e d w p e l a ai l n th t y ha i t n n a o m n u e c c h an sh g o o rt a t - j' ; : - u o e t d he . r p T l h an i . s B T o h o e k
t p A c m l h e o a l o n r y s t s s e a o u b i n c w e n s h h s t w o r w t u h e h e h o e . a i v m r n e e s o T t a s h i r d t e u t r t c V n l e t a i o i l e a w s u x r A a i a e d n c b s d t l t o l r e h y e m e D s e i h i s r s o p c pm e w o o r a v s t s ys e o o e r n m s s i s s a e a i y s : o t e n, ve p r -i 1 : 11 it s a a s l a i e v i s l ; i m t v e o>. n s i p s r e a a l o r l l r c t e o s g w u s o m i n a o a t t l d n h r e s i s . i e w t a s . o n , n M d i T a a e h n n o n a f . y d t -
t l m e o e n w t t W h i i t o e m d a e l n s w e d a m e r n u t n o c e t f a h c r b h f o e a , m s r a t e t e n q h r u d o , i s t S r e h 5 e w e 3 d h ~ m t a o o a n n d b h " n h a e e e v c r e r ' e : ;' i - s . v ;r - rf K'-. .1 c i c ^ o e . r s k s e ch i m i i l o d e n , s e . y c ^ p" T f . o h e l e h -
fW a i a t n es t a t l h e h l e r , av t a £ e h n 5 a d a s n o t c i a t l £ r h e t a o o e r s d f e f a r S s e e l o a l c m r l v g i e ^ i n 0 t i g 0 i 5 i g i i . '" t.^
c s I ma f a p k n o y i n . k o i o e u - t n ; r - . l o . a -m f i 8 . l p . - o u Y o e W o r y i u s l s o l o do r y fa a o n i n a t o c , t m h y r a t o e k h u q e e r w 1 i ' : t . i h _ J : ' e i ti - \ e e :
againpresentitsslftoyou. It);;.:
t te o l w ls ar h d im ma h k o i w ng to h c is om fo m r e t n un c e e , b n a- n r d ii ]•; i.ud
t s m o o o u a W o r l b n e e s S t s a t r w c a a o s c r n u a u d t l t m h d f u e l e l i l i m r a i i a k t c o e l e o o e s n t k s o d a o i t p t t f h u l i a b S i o t l o e n i u h c s s i i a ^ h n - r i e e u a l t i d f s r f e d e . e c v — w c i - . , > t !a Ih n } e , d i e ^ a e s i i v i b d e r o r e t o y h s f
b t 1 l - - i i n 1 . . on LI : .o : . - i- 1 ; i > l t » T i l u u t a i i s ; a d * a t e D l i t b s i c n i t : s e r : t a > l e , e t . n i • c " u m c h $ l o e p t e s t 2 y t n i i d 5 t p i - b 0 c B o o a l . . r t e n n i e ro o a n i s i e n v o s e Y e g t c e a n i U i h o a h d n u v i e e u m e m T y o o h s n e r e o c o f , o e r r a u i f v y t a S t n n r t s e n v t h o c h b r e o i e e r e l e n i . t y V t ; o i a b a t i, e r i u v u h c - . o . ^ r;-.. o e k v c o o i J f . e. SJe o c .u r r e . t - e d s t u e i - cw v e J y r i e i ii x o i n n a o n p t f n i r k g l h o o g e a i g r t w i n - t t t m i i l n t s h h a » l i s . o e e - e l e
a al n l. y I ' v t J - T I O S •.a: T n tZ h i ,o i^ n U o r r B c' a ^ s' b s A -; l mo D e a t l k o a H e n v i r . d S , 'o . h r o i k — r , g O h a a n l n n e y y y _ o c' A . . ;•• L-an malie m l o u r e e ss t p i o i s au -
s t i h a e a l s i l s ' y e ^ . s^-r::'r"'o,>ersi~,th:- ^ ; 1 (.. o l v u ' b e e r ia 4 av ! i 0 u 0 g methods \,- t . o oc m c a w^ l i c s e c n - i . o ^.v 7 c s i e :i j i i j e : . n f t i a i s s y t e . l s e p a e v c I e - t
I p s n a m t a w i l h o l i n c t ; h h , t e o b a h ' e . o ' g w t i r. n t - i n . i - i i ui s n a g g an t m o d a y y n o o u b r e p . e o r d w s * n o ^ n p j e u o n d f d g g u u o a p o e o d n n c c i o y t o m V r ( i . .A NEW AND WONDERFUL BOOK U
JUST PUBLISHED.
OF
Love Making
SOLVED,
OR AN
E^s]^ Road to Karriage.
Al s i t f a e r s t t R u i d g y ht an a d nd m t o h s e t B e a n t e t r l g e et i i s c Ha l l a f bo W r o h n as !
been givenbytheAuthor,toproducethis
singular Book. Nothing like ithas ever
before lefta Printing Press. A man in
love,^ or a ladj' who.'^e heart has been
touched with the burning fire of True
Love,will find in this Book StrangeSe-
c n r n et E s a t s ha y t nWoafyrien t d o c M o a uh r l i- te i ll ag t e hem t , li a r n o d '
Lisve's IntricatePatliway. Italso
contains many Ancient Hidden S.ciets
thattheMarriecl should know. Ifawife
hasawayward husband, or feelsthatshe
isneglected, get thisBookinhishandsat
once,anditwill surelyreclaim liimtohis
firstlove. It.startles whileitteaches. It
provesthatthe"Way toWinisno longera
secret. Ifyou follow thiswriter's advice
failuretowinthe objectof yourchoiceis
impossible. Send for thisBook. Itwill
/ y o co l i ' n l t i r o y v , e ci M vi a li k z i ed n a g n . dbar I b t a w r i o ll na bi l p - i i a a n y s ir b y e j o e o u y n a t r o t a h n t o s h u a o s c u k a s e n a d d nd t t s o im g e o e f s t i b Tt o sh t p h e ric s e e S . x e e c s E , r v e a e t n r s d y
f / C c s f a t u m m . t m s i e e n n g m t e o a T r l i i e c t y i he e c a s o r n t n c s e o c m a t b n e i d d n h e a d w n , i d t s h 'l C i l o i i i n l s . v o t , B . u s o n h o i i k p te a d t n ea d i c n h M e a M s t a r r y r i o i m u a o g n e y h , o t w h a a n n d to al h l m a e s o e t t a h l e e r r v e e a i r d n y y -
c.-eatedan immense sensation nmougevery gradeof society that ithas
r ^ e i a t c r he a d n . ge I T t h c i u n ts gs de r e e p ga a r n d d ing st L ri o k v e e s M t a h k e in r g oo A t vh o i f ch t y h o e u t n r e e v e. er h I e t a i r s d fu o l f l be o - f
ore. Ifyouarein love, and itisnot reciprocated, this Great Bookwill
openwideLove's barred door for you, and break down every barrier.
Marvelous truths burstforth from everypage, and theBeacon Litiht of
Love illumineseveryfootst.pandmakes Love'sPathwayclear.
SampleCopyandTermsto Agents,sentbyMail postpaid,for35 Cts.
orFiveCopies to one address for $1.00. Ask four friendsto buy one
each,andthusgetyourownBookfree. Addressallorders.
M. YOUNG, 173 Oreenwich Street, New York.J
mi umi
AsouT A WORTH
M. YOUN(J'S
1
UIDE-HORSE OV^NERS.
M
imM
A Complete, i IMa Misi the hm,
A PERFECT HORSE DOCTOR!
or T W h o e r r k e s is aH n o o rs o e n , e w " h w o ho c O a w n ns a , ffo C r a d re t s o f b o e r
withoutthiswork. Itisjustthebandy,
conivlt'teand Practical Manual tiiathaa
longbeen needed by HorseOwners. It
a is n w d r H i o tt r e s n e b D y ea a le w r el of l- g k re n a o t wn exp V e e r t i e e r n i c u e a , ry ho Su t i U g t eo n i o i
matterofimportancerelatiuj^to theHorseinall
i i D t n e s t f e e o x c r i t m s s H te o y n r o c s u e e a i j s b o o n c e u k g e t l y e t - c h T t r e e i d K c . k i s n T . d hi o T s t o H w o M o r a r ^ n k e a t t g o h e o B r a u o B j ug r h s T l e o y .
loShoeaHorse. ToBreak and TrainHt.^es.
?ToCureallKinds of HorseDiseases. Tht.^ja
nothingrelatingto Buying.Breeding.ReaA,g,
T t T r h a a o i m r n o i i u n n g g h g , l S y H h d o o e e r t i a s n i g e l , e s d F . b ee y d I i a n n N a g d e , d w T it a M i m e o i t n n h g o i , s d. B g r i e v A a e n k n i d n t i g t he a t n e A d l r l D s t o - c H o t o o f W ri T t n o r g a " H i l o n a r k i s e e n a s g H bi . E ^ ^ ^ i e d s
L C H a i o o H e r m o s D r e e o s D w e S n o t S a . w t n — n a d T n S o f d t o . i r C l — l a T M t w o o c i h u t M n h a a t o k u W i e t i n l a g H d . i H — H t o T c o r o h s r i e s n M e g S a . . i — k t — T e T o o o n a Te B i a H t r s c o e r h a H s k a a e u H H n . F o ^ c o r r h l s s e l e e o s s w .— t y o T o o u K . i M d - a e T KT . o e- - ^ i a ' M - o ^ a f ^ i U k - t V e i
v P c f p g H a o A l o a e r e o r s f l r e u n a r k o a s t r T s t m t I t e a e e F h t a p h i l n a o t t v B l i e c H t u a i o s e o e A i r l n i p o r t n s o g u n r k t s a o f n v e e i s b t f e e a T t l c h c l t c y . h e e e R e t o o u o e s , u i s s a A u o t s n b a T e r g n i a 2 l n n e v e , n r e n e e i y 5 g y a e r t n o o n i w y h f t g f c n g d o r h a e e h A o H a e k t b i n w m o n t n n o t E a r H o o r a s o s y d f < s w H i , r D e i . s , o v s o h t e t r e c r O a Y o o i s , t I w n < e t e r o l - n a o w d b s t l r r e i 9 u u s . t 5 t r t s a r y e e h h t , r e n e r n c e A m i a o t a o l o r t d A n s A p e t o b c e o O F t d l i e t , y i l t w e u w a n a m i c n a i s r m e c o v u l s t k a p , H l o c h e E t i o y y m b d h D n r E l u r s g w V e . t e o w p o r a o e g . t i c o a r n r c t h t h a s t v o e I e e , h v t h t m n r r i a - d g g n a D n n i e a p g i d m v s d n s a s e s d T . s e i s h n r e a t d i m d s h e S u e v u o s < s s i m s o s n r h K B g f ^r a ^ e e e r ^ s ^ a e t s ^ ^ o e ^ t s q t o t n ^ „ c o u 8 y r ^ , R o e , i j _ o ^ i u ^ i n i . 9 n ^ ^ u k p ^ v e H I ^r i j i ^
^Tsa^B°L^&ence of everything T-^f "orse
hasnoequal. HorsemcM throughoutthe c<mntry""w'r^i.Jt^e usmostflateiiug
testimonials.
SAMPLE COPT sent posipnid hij Mail on receipt of L%>C
Address WI. YOUNG, Publisher,
173 GREENWICH ST.. NEW YORK.nazov knihy ==================The_Witchs_Master_Grimoire.pdf
(cid:1)
Letter
I
NTRODUCTION
(cid:1)
15
(cid:1)
Magick is the most vital force in our lives. It gives us
personal mastery over our destiny so we are no longer vic-
tims of fate. To study magick is to study life, and to under-
stand the concept of controlled coincidence. Things do not
happen randomly, but rather in conjunction or answer to a
previously set up condition. The past is what controls the
present, and the present is what creates the future.
In essence, magick, is the rediscovery of your basic abil-
ity to create. What you create or make happen today, is going
to reflect on how you are able to deal with tomorrow. If you
were to get that much needed pay raise today, you could pay
your bills tomorrow, and even plan for something special in
the future.
Learning to do magick is like learning to drive—you learn
by doing. You take a little time each day to practice, and
pretty soon you have it mastered. By learning to drive, you
increase your mobility and thus your realm of opportuni-
ties. You can suddenly go places and do things you weren’t
able to do before. Each time you use magick, your ability to
control your life increases, and the better your chances are
of getting what you want.
Discover how Witchcraft and magick can help you lead a
better, more fulfilling life. Arranged alphabetically, the(cid:1) The Witch’’’’’s Master Grimoire
magickal rites in this book can help you solve those annoy-
ing, everyday problems that cause stress and anxiety. Each
entry is fully defined, and then followed by time tested spells
that really work—spells that will fit into your fast-paced life
style. Best of all, you don’t need to be a trained initiate, or
have special powers, to make use of the material in this book.
All you need is an open mind, and the desire to succeed.
The word ‘Witch’ derives from the Anglo-Saxon wicca “a
magickian who weakens the power of evil, or one who is able
to bend reality using natural forces.”
Generally, Witchcraft employs the powers of nature to
create a charm, philtre, potion or spell to bring about the
desired change. The physical object then becomes the cata-
lyst or focal point of the magickal operation.
You decide what it is you want, and then you create a
spell or magickal rite to get it. You are in control at all times,
and the outcome depends on your focused will. The only
limitations on magick, are those you place upon it.
Spells are one of the most popular and delightful ways
to approach magick. Since they do not require any specific
amount of room, elaborate equipment, or special training,
anyone can do them. The only thing you really need to make
a spell work is, a strong desire to have something or someone.
So, with all this in mind are you ready to do magick? Are
you ready to cast that magick spell that will help you get the
things you really need and want? If the answer is yes, then
you have the right book in your hand. The charms, spells,
and magickal formulas in this book are easy to follow, and
do not demand impossible-to-find ingredients. In fact, most
of spells and rituals in this book make use of everyday things
like herbs, plants, minerals, and candles. For those magickal
operations that do require special items, such as oils or
incense, recipes are provided.
(cid:1)16(cid:1)
Introduction
The only thing you really need to know is “when” is the
best time to cast a spell, or how to coordinate your magickal
operation to coincide with the phases of the moon. (Moon
phases can be found in The Old Farmers Almanac, or on
any good Astrological Calendar.) A simple rule of thumb is,
use the new moon to begin projects, attract money, or regen-
erate friendships and health; the full moon to channel en-
ergy toward projects involving personal success, career, love,
and marriage; the waning moon to get rid of negative influ-
ences, and bad situations.
Last but not least, try not to be disillusioned if your
magick doesn’t work immediately. Some spells just take
longer to work than others do. You must have faith, other-
wise you block the flow of energy and impede your progress.
Remember, every powerful thought you send out leaves an
imprint on the etheric world. (For our purposes, etheric per-
tains to the invisible world, which vibrates at a different level
than the physical world. The realm of angels, gods, and other
life forms which communicate with humans.) So if you re-
ally believe in what you are doing—then it will come true.
(cid:1)
17(cid:1) The Witch’’’’’s Master Grimoire
(cid:1)18(cid:1)
A
A
A
IR
Air is symbolically related to breath. It is the subtle realm
between the physical and spiritual planes. Air provides us
with inspiration, illumination, and the ability to communi-
cate our ideas to others. Air represents new beginnings, the
thought process, and creativity. Air helps us to focus and
direct energy toward a desired goal. It is our ability to think
and reason.
AIR MAGICK
Knot the Wind
Items needed: 3’ strand of blue cord; compass.
The calling or raising of the wind is a very old magickal
process, originally used when the wind was vital for sailing.
Witches were reputed to harness the power of the wind in a
knotted cord, and then sell it to sailors. When untied, the
first knot would bring a gentle breeze. The second would
bring a strong wind, and the third a gale.
Modern Witches use the knot spell to for inspiration and
creativity. To harness the power of the wind you will need a
strand of blue cord and a compass. Go to the highest hilltop
(cid:1)
19
(cid:1)(cid:1) The Witch’’’’’s Master Grimoire
Air Correspondence Chart
VALUES Inspiration, illumination,
awareness, perception
COLORS Blue, silver, white, gray
SYMBOLS Circle, bird, bell, sylph, flute,
chimes, clouds
TOOLS Wand, rod, staff
PLANTS Almond, broom, clover,
eyebright, lavender, pine
STONES Amethyst, sapphire, citrine,
azurite
PLACES Sky, mountain tops, tree tops,
bluffs, airplanes
ZODIAC Aquarius, gemini, libra
TIME Spring, dawn
ARCHANGEL Raphael
DIRECTION East
PROCESS Thinking, reading, speaking,
praying, singing
you can find. Face the East. Take several deep, cleansing
breaths. Hold the cord above your head. When the wind
begins to blow, tie the first knot, as you say the following:
I knot the wind
The wind of desire
I knot the wind
The wind that shall inspire.
Repeat the above conjuration as you tie the second and
third knots. Take a few moments to feel the cleansing power
(cid:1)20(cid:1)
A
of the wind. Ask the wind to free you from all negative
thoughts and vibrations. Take your cord and hang it above
your desk or work space. Whenever you feel the need for
inspiration, untie the first knot and say the following:
I free the wind
The wind of desire
I free the wind
My mind to inspire.
Balloon Magick
Items needed: small balloon filled with helium,
parchment paper, 6-8” string.
Everyone loves balloons. They are like birds, free to float
wherever the wind may take them. The idea behind balloon
magick is to free your wishes from human bonds so they will
have a chance to manifest.
The best time to perform balloon magick is on New Year’s
Eve. Choose the color of a balloon which most matches your
desire, and have it filled with helium:
Red: Courage, strength, and power.
Green: Money, luck, and personal goals.
Pink: Friendship and love.
Blue: Creativity and peace.
Orange: Action and attraction.
Black: Protection and release.
Yellow: Selling and communication.
White: Spiritual and psychic awareness.
(cid:1)
21(cid:1) The Witch’’’’’s Master Grimoire
Ten minutes before the hour of midnight, write your wish
on a small piece of parchment paper. With a small piece of
string, attach the paper to the balloon. At the strike of mid-
night let your balloon go as you chant the following passage.
Float now free
Bring to me
What I wish
So Mote It Be!
Turn around and don’t look back. Forget about the wish,
and allow the powers of the universe to make it come true.
AIR INCENSE AND FRAGRANCE
Ambergris (love, lust)
Wear ambergris to attract love. Mix Ambergris with a small
amount of vanilla, burn on the night of the full moon to
increase passion.
Benzoin (purification, prosperity)
Burn benzoin to clear a room of unwanted vibrations. Mix
benzoin with frankincense and burn during the new moon
to clear confusion, and increase psychic powers.
Lavender (love, protection)
Wear lavender oil to soothe the mind and body, and bring
visions of love. Mix lavender with sage and burn during the
waning moon to purify and protect home.
Pine (healing, money)
Burn to clear air and help with breathing problems. Mix pine
with eucalyptus and burn to enhance life and bring money.
(cid:1)22(cid:1)
A
Sage (wisdom, protection)
Wear sage oil to clear confusion. Place sage leaves under a
door mat to protect the home from negativity. Burn sage during
the waning moon for protection and to clear confusion.
Star Anise (psychic power, luck)
Burn or wear the seeds to increase psychic power. On a windy
day scatter the seeds in the wind to bring luck.
Sweetgrass (spiritual attunement)
Burn sweetgrass to call in the spirits. Mix sweetgrass with lav-
ender and burn to protect the home from unwanted spirits.
A
MULET
The amulet is an object that has been left in its virgin
state and has been psychically charged with a specific pur-
pose in mind. Amulets are passive in their abilities to com-
municate energy patterns. Only when their barriers have been
crossed do they react or retaliate. For example, the horse-
shoe that hangs over the door will only bring good luck to
those who pass beneath it.
Almost any symbolic object—special stones, shells, wood
carvings, statues—can be turned into an amulet. To charge
an object as an amulet, hold it in your hand, think about what
the object represents, and visualize the object becoming a
symbol of that concept as you force your intention into it.
AMULET MAGICK
Ankh
The ankh symbol stands for everlasting life and
regeneration. The ankh amulet works best when
made from wood, metal, or faience. The ankh helps
(cid:1)
23(cid:1) The Witch’’’’’s Master Grimoire
its wearer live life to the fullest degree and is sometimes used
for success, as well as for protection.
Cross
The cross is the primordial sign for the union of
opposites: spirit and matter, positive and negative,
male and female, sacred and secular. The cross is
the conjunction of all planes in existence. It is worn
for protection.
Eye or Udjat (the Eye of Horus)
Whether facing left or right, the eye is a form of
protection and good health. Because of its asso-
ciation with Ra (the high god of Egypt), the udjat
was considered to be a potent amulet that would
bring strength, vigor, and soundness to its wearer.
Feather
The feather is a symbol of truth, transcendent
knowledge, and power. It represents the wind, the
heavens, and the soul’s journey to other realms.
The feather is considered to be a good omen and
brings good fortune and luck in games of skill.
Hecate Wheel
The symbol of the goddess of the crossroads, and
emblem of the eternity of Witchcraft. It can be
used for protection or to help invoke the goddess
herself. The symbol is usually imprinted on a small
round disk of silver, wood, or ceramic, and is worn
on a cord around the neck or carried in a pouch.
(cid:1)24(cid:1)
A
Key
The key is considered to be a universal symbol
of life, knowledge, initiation, wisdom, and free-
dom. The key brings opportunity, offers choice,
and signifies new beginnings. A gold key brings
good luck, prosperity, and opportunity, and is good for busi-
ness. The silver key helps one retain knowledge, imparts
wisdom, and frees the spirit.
Pentacle
The symbol of the spirit in control of the forces
of nature or the elements of ordinary life. This
is usually made of silver, gold, pewter or cop-
per, and is worn around the neck for protec-
tion from negative vibrations. (This can be
consecrated into a talisman, or just worn as a protective
amulet).
Scarab
This is a replica of the Egyptian dung beetle. It
is usually made from stone or clay. The beetle
(scarabaeus sacer) was the symbol of the sun
god Khepera, a self created and self-sustaining
force. The scarab represents life, regeneration,
and renewal—divine providence. To wear the scarab brings
health and strength. It also provides powerful protection
against all harm.
Unicorn
The unicorn is a lunar emblem of chastity, pu-
rity, and divine justice. To own or wear a Uni-
corn brings security and protection. The root of
the Unicorn is a symbol of love, and used to bind
the affections of another.
(cid:1)
25(cid:1) The Witch’’’’’s Master Grimoire
Yin-Yang
Chinese cosmic symbol. The yin-yang symbol
has become very popular with the New Age move-
ment, because it represents the universe and all
its possibilities. It is the embodiment and unifi-
cation of all opposites—the feminine (yin) and
masculine (yang) principles. When worn as an amulet it serves
as protection and a means to bring one into alignment with
the cosmos.
A
NIMAL
It has long been believed that humans have a kinship
with animals, and that this kinship allows us to draw on their
special qualities. When choosing an animal as a totem (a
hereditary badge or emblem for a tribe or clan that serves as
a personal sacred talisman), you call upon the power of the
animal and are drawn into harmony with its strength and
power. Totems appear in dreams and bring healing, abun-
dance, strength and power, and protection. Native Ameri-
can Indians believe that when you align your consciousness
with that of an animal, that animal will speak to you in a
special way, the way of power. This way of power is consid-
ered to be very potent. The totem animal then becomes your
spiritual ally and safely guides you through life’s trials and
tribulations. For example, if you feel the need for more inde-
pendence, you might want to work with the cat. If you are
faced with a problem which calls for swift action, then the
horse would be a good choice.
The best way to make contact with your power animal is
during meditation. Choose a place where you can be alone
for at least 15 minutes. Dim the lights and turn off all out-
side distractions, including the television, radio, and stereo.
Seat yourself in a comfortable chair and relax your body.
Begin at the top of the head and work downward.
(cid:1)26(cid:1)
A
Tilt your head forwards, backwards, and then from side
to side, breathing deeply three times each. Relax.
Continue down through the neck, chest, back, arms and
abdomen, breathing deeply three times for each body sec-
tion. Relax.
Then continue on down through the thighs, knees,
ankles, feet, and toes. Check all muscles you can feel and be
sure that they are relaxed. If your breathing is even and calm,
relaxation will come quickly and easily.
As you direct your breathing, exclude all thoughts and
sensations and fix your consciousness totally on the breath-
ing process. Let your mind slip into a semiconscious state
and ask for your power animal to appear. When the animal
comes into focus, relax and allow yourself to connect with
the animal on a mental level. Invite the animal to work with
you and give you a measure of its power. When you feel you
have absorbed the qualities or power needed, thank your
power animal, and return to a full conscious state of mind.
ANIMAL MAGICK
The following animals all have magickal qualities that
can be harnessed in times of need. Choose an animal to work
with that best represents a personality characteristic you
would like to develop or improve.
Bear (introspection, stability, wisdom)
The strength of the bear lies in its ability to enter into a
state of hibernation. In this state it is able to digest the year’s
experience. The bear gains wisdom through sleep in dream
time. When warmth and sunlight return, the bear emerges
strong, stable, and with renewed vitality. Bear is strongly pro-
tective of home and family.
(cid:1)
27(cid:1) The Witch’’’’’s Master Grimoire
Bear Associations
Direction: North
Element: Earth
Deities: Artemis, Diana, Thor, Cernunnos
The bear will teach you great wisdom. He will also teach
you the value of stillness and introspection. When you feel
the need for stability, call on the bear during meditation.
Ask him to bring you wisdom.
Buffalo (abundance, prayer, thanksgiving)
The buffalo was the major source of food for the Plains
Indians. The buffalo provided meat, hide for clothing, and
hooves for glue. The buffalo was considered sacred in many
traditions because it represented the ideal that when all was
in balance there was great abundance. When there was abun-
dance, prayer and thanksgiving were offered in gratitude.
Buffalo Associations
Direction: North and South
Elements: Earth and Fire
Deities: Apis, Cernunnos, Jupiter, Thor, Zeus
When you feel out of synch with those around you or
your environment, ask the buffalo for help. Work with the
buffalo during meditation. When you feel the need to pray
or give thanks for blessings received, ask the buffalo to help
you express your emotions in a proper manner.
Cat (independence, secrets)
The cat is very independent, a mighty hunter, and has
many secrets. The cat was worshiped by the Egyptians be-
cause of its cunning and ability to purge the house of unde-
sirable elements. Bast, the cat-headed goddess, was
(cid:1)28(cid:1)
A
considered to be a great protector of women. In ancient
Rome, the cat was a symbol of freedom. The cat is known for
hiding and being secretive.
Cat Associations
Direction: North and South
Elements: Earth and Fire
Deities: Bast, Brighid, Hathor, Isis, Maat, Osiris, Ra
If there is something you need to find out about yourself
or others, ask the cat for help during meditation. If you feel
overburdened and feel the need for more for independence,
invite the cat into your dreams.
Dog (friendship, loyalty)
Dogs have long been considered man’s best friend. The
dog is loyal to a fault, content with the bare necessities of
life, and, like the wolf, protective of home and family. For
thousands of years, dogs have been honored for their loy-
alty. Hermes (Mercury) was frequently accompanied by his
faithful dog. Argos, Odysseus’s dog, was the only one to rec-
ognize him when he returned from the Trojan War. Dogs
have a keen sense of smell, hearing, and sight. It is said they
can sense evil and death approaching.
Dog Associations
Direction: North
Elements: Earth
Deities: Odin, Lugh, Demeter, Mercury/Hermes, Ishtar
Use the dog when you feel the need for support from
your friends, or when you feel loyalties are divided. During
meditation ask the dog to protect you from the negative
thoughts and vibrations others send your way.
(cid:1)
29(cid:1) The Witch’’’’’s Master Grimoire
Eagle (spirit, connection to the Divine)
The eagle is believed to be the messenger or connection
between humans and the divine. The eagle has the ability to
live in the realm of the spirit and yet remain connected to
the Earth and its inhabitants. The eagle represents the grace
that is achieved through hard work. The eagle teaches
humans how to have courage and learn from the lows in life
as well as the highs.
Eagle Associations
Direction: East
Element: Air
Deities: Zeus, Indra, Jupiter, Mithras, Apollo
When you need help with spiritual development ask the
eagle for help. In meditation merge with the eagle for help
with rising above material desires. Ask the eagle to enter your
dreams and impart knowledge of about the Ancient Ones.
Elephant (wisdom, stability)
The elephant has always been revered for its size, intelli-
gence, and devotion to family. The Greek philosopher
Aristotle admired the elephant for its great wisdom and
intelligence. In Hinduism, the elephant-headed god Ganesha
is invoked before any undertaking for his wisdom. Ganesha
is said to bring stability and abundance to shop owners.
Elephant Associations
Direction: North
Element: Earth
Deities: Ganesh, Indra, Siva
If you’re having problems making decisions, work with the
elephant for wisdom and stability. If you’re considering start-
ing a business or need to attract more customers to your present
business, ask the elephant-headed god Ganesha for help.
(cid:1)30(cid:1)
A
Horse (swift action, power)
The horse has long been a symbol of swiftness and power.
In ancient mythology it is the horse that bears the heroes
and the gods across the earth, and even across the sky, at
great speed. The horse is physical power and unearthly
power. In shamanic practices, the horse enables the shaman
to fly through the air to reach the heavens or spirit realm.
The horse is able to carry great burdens for long distances
with ease.
Horse Associations
Direction: North, East, South, West
Element: Earth, Air, Fire, Water
Deities: Epona, Helios, Brighid,
Apollo, Godiva, Mars, Artemis
When you need to respond swiftly to a situation, call on
the horse. If you need more personal power, or are overbur-
dened by too much work, ask the horse to give you strength.
Owl (clairvoyance, magick, astral projection)
The owl has been called the night eagle because of its
connection to the world of spirit. The owl hunts at night.
The owl can see in the dark and pinpoint prey by sound.
Humans may be afraid of the dark, but night is owl’s friend.
The owl is silent; you can’t hear it when it flies. The owl has
often been associated with the Witch because of its connec-
tion to the night.
Owl Associations
Direction: East
Element: Air
Deities: Athena, Lilith, Hecate, Bloeuweed,
Isis, Minerva
(cid:1)
31(cid:1) The Witch’’’’’s Master Grimoire
During meditation, ask the owl to help you unveil the
truth and see things clearly. The owl can also help you learn
to interpret omens and intuit dreams. Before doing any kind
of divination, ask the owl to be present and help you inter-
pret things correctly.
Skunk (reputation, respect)
The significance of the skunk is no joke. This adorable,
furry little animal has a reputation that demands great
respect. Due to its distinctive behavior, humans, and other
animals, give this tiny, odoriferous creature a wide berth. The
fundamental concept here is respect. The skunk’s message
to all is walk your talk, respect yourself and others, and you will
create a position of strength and an honored reputation.
Skunk Associations
Direction: North, East
Element: Earth, Air
Deities: Diana, Cernunnos, Artemis
If you feel a need for respect from friends or family, call
on the skunk. He is sure to liven things up. If you live alone,
ask the skunk to warn you of danger and protect your home.
Wolf (power, protection, psychic development)
Wolves howl at the moon, they mate openly, and walk
silently through the woods. The wolf lives by instinct. The
wolf is the pathfinder, the discoverer of new ideas who
returns to his family to teach them the ways of the world.
The Wolf has keen senses, works with the power of the moon,
and is a symbol of psychic energy.
(cid:1)32(cid:1)
A
Wolf Associations
Direction: North
Element: Earth
Deities: Loki, Odin, Diana, Artemis,
Brighid, the Morrigan
When you are in need of more personal power or psy-
chic energy call on the wolf. The wolf will take you to his
private den and teach you how to walk silently and work
with the power of the moon to build psychic skills.
A
STRAL
The astral plane is the working ground of the magickian,
where the truth about all things is revealed. It is the place of
angels, demons, and fairies, host to the elemental forces of
nature. To the Witch and magickian alike, the astral plane
holds the secret of power, the key to the creation of miracu-
lous effects on the physical plane.
The astral plane has often been defined as the realm of
visual imagination, a celestial realm where all things are pos-
sible. As a result of its ethereal atmosphere, the astral plane
remains a great mystery to most. For the fearless explorer,
however, the astral plane is nothing more than an uncharted
realm waiting to be discovered.
The astral plane is just as real to the astral body as the
material plane is to the physical body. To the traveler on the
astral plane, the scenery and everything connected with it seems
as solid as the most solid material appears to the physical eye.
One may travel from one region of the astral to another simply
by an act of will without ever moving the physical body.
When consciousness operates outside of the body it takes
the mind with it. However, rarely is the mind fully conscious.
This is why, although over 90 percent of us project, seldom
(cid:1)
33(cid:1) The Witch’’’’’s Master Grimoire
do we remember our experiences. Usually they are forgotten
or passed off as vivid dreams.
ASTRAL PROJECTION
Start by selecting a peaceful place and time of the day
where you will not be disturbed. Although this exercise can
be done in a chair, it is best to lie flat on your back on a firm,
but not hard, surface. Next, stretch out and loosen your cloth-
ing. Relax. Follow your breath, fixing your consciousness
totally on the breathing process.
Make a conscious effort to go completely limp. Begin
with your feet and, working upwards, relax all of the muscles
in your body. This should take about four or five minutes.
While in this relaxed state, visualize your inner self
becoming light and lifting free of the physical body. Imagine
yourself floating directly above the body as though you were
on a cloud of air. Allow yourself to experience this feeling for
about five minutes and then slowly lower yourself (your
astral self) back into your body. Do this exercise several times
until you feel comfortable floating and then continue with
the next step.
Once you are free of the body, walk into another room.
Go slowly and take the time to examine everything in the
room. Take note of pictures, how furniture is arranged, and
where objects of interest are. Do this exercise several times,
and then have someone rearrange the room just prior to
your journey. After you have returned to your body, write
down exactly what you saw and where everything was posi-
tioned. Return to the room and check on your accuracy. The
results will then indicate if you actually did astrally project.
(cid:1)34(cid:1)
A
A
THAME
The athame is a double-edged knife used to inscribe, or
cast, the circle of power onto the earth or floor. It is associ-
ated with the element of fire, and it represents strength, power,
and the masculine force of nature. Since the athame is a
weapon, it also has the power to subdue and banish rebel-
lious entities or spirits.
In magick, the athame is used for directing personal power
and to focus energy in a desired direction. The athame also
regulates, as well as conducts, the flow of internal expression
toward the desired destination during magickal operations.
CONSECRATION OF THE ATHAME
Items needed: Athame; small bowl of water with
three pinches of salt added; one white candle; one
black candle; sandalwood incense.
On the night of the full moon, place the above items on
your altar or small table. Light both of the candles and the
incense. Relax and focus on the athame. Pass the athame
blade and handle through the flame of the black candle as
you say:
All negative thoughts be banished, all unwanted
vibrations be gone.
(cid:1)
35(cid:1) The Witch’’’’’s Master Grimoire
Now pass the athame blade and handle through the flame
of the white candle as you say:
Let only the forces and powers I wish be within from this
moment on.
Pass the athame through the smoke of the incense,
through the white candle flame, and then sprinkle with salt
water as you say:
Elements of Air, Fire, Water, and Earth.
To this tool of the magick now give birth.
Blessed and consecrated in this hour
Be thou athame of strength and power.
Wrap the athame in a red silk cloth, and keep in a safe
place. Only use the athame for magickal rites and spellcrafting.
(cid:1)36(cid:1)
B
B
(cid:1)
37
(cid:1)
B
ANISH
In Witchcraft and magick, banishing usually refers to
the casting out of unwanted energies that might influence
or impact magickal work. The Witch or magician will usu-
ally banish this negative energy from the area he or she will
be working in prior to performing any magickal rite or spell.
BANISHING RITUAL OF THE PENTAGRAM
Item needed: Athame.
The pentagram is a five-pointed star. It represents the
four elements (earth, air, fire, water) subject to the Akasha,
or spirit. By all accounts, it is considered to be one of the
most powerful protection amulets of the magickal arts. No
self respecting Witch or magician would ever leave home
without one.
For centuries, ceremonial magicians have used the ritual
of the pentagram as a prelude to their mystical rites. The
ritual serves to cleanse the working area of negative vibra-
tions. It can also be used to purge oneself of detrimental or
obsessive thoughts. The nice thing about the pentagram ritual
is that it creates a positive atmosphere for working magic.(cid:1) The Witch’’’’’s Master Grimoire
Begin the ritual with a short relaxing meditation to help
clear your mind and body of stress and dissonant thoughts.
When you feel the time is right, stand and face the East.
Take your athame in your right hand:
Touch your forehead and say: Ateh (thou art).
Touch your breast and say: Malkuth (the kingdom).
Touch the left shoulder and say: Ve-Gedulah (and the
glory).
Touch the right shoulder and say: Ve-Geburah (and
the power).
Cross your hands over your breast and say: Le-Olam
(forever).
Hold the athame up in front and say: Amen.
This completes the Kabbalistic cross (a ritual devised, in
its modern form, by the Hermetic Order of the Golden
Dawn), or the opening of the ritual. Take several energizing
breaths and continue with the actual inscribing of the pen-
tagrams. Facing East, with your arm outstretched, trace the
pentagram with your athame.
When the pentagram is complete, thrust your athame
into the center of it, and chant the deity name:
Yod He Vau He.
Proceed to the South. Trace the invoking pentagram in
the air with your athame just as you did in the East. When
(cid:1)38(cid:1)
B
the pentagram is complete, thrust your athame into the center
of it and chant the deity name:
Adonai.
Go to the West. Trace the invoking pentagram in the air
with your athame. When the pentagram is complete, thrust
your athame into the center of it, and chant the deity name:
Eheieh.
Move to the North. Trace the invoking pentagram in the
air with your athame. When the pentagram is complete, thrust
your athame into the center of it, and chant the deity name:
Agla.
Return to the East, and complete the circle by thrusting
your athame into the pentagram you first created. Now step
back, and with arms outstretched to form a cross, recite the
following with great resolution:
Before me stands Raphael,
Behind me stands Gabriel.
At my right hand stands Michael,
At my left hand stands Auriel.
Before me flames the Pentagram,
Behind me shines the six-rayed star.
Complete the ritual by repeating the Kabbalistic cross
as you did in the beginning. The area is now ready for
magickal work.
This ritual can be done as a self-protection rite as well. I
know some people who do it every morning upon rising.
The pentagrams act as a shield of protection throughout
the day. The protective power of the rite does fade and dissi-
pate with time, hence the reason it needs to be repeated at
regular intervals.
The key to any ceremonial magickal act is visualization.
You must be able to project a visual image of the thought-form
(cid:1)
39(cid:1) The Witch’’’’’s Master Grimoire
you are working with, so you can see and feel it. In this case
it would be the pentagram, a blazing star of energy and power,
an arm’s length away.
B (B )
ESOM ROOM
Hardly anything symbolizes Witchcraft more than the
besom (pronounced BEH-sum). The idea of Witches flying
on brooms is as old as the Craft itself. We may never find out
just where or when this phenomenon began, but it lends
certain magick to the tales of old.
The significance of the besom (broom) rests with its abil-
ity to sweep, and therefore clean an area of unwanted dirt.
European folklore is full of stories about using brooms along
with certain incantations while sweeping out the house, the
purpose being to sweep out the evil influences along with
the dirt. The broom has also been used to form common law
marriages. Both parties jump over the broomstick to signify
they are joined in a union. Today, many Wiccans and Pagans
still jump over the broom at the end of the marriage ceremo-
nies to seal their union.
An authentic besom or Witches broom has seven dis-
tinct parts (see illustration).
1. The Staff Butt: Usually solid, but may also be hollow and
plugged with a wood cork.
2. The Staff: The long shaft of the broom, sometimes re-
ferred to as the wand, will vary in length, thickness, and
texture. Its carvings and decorations also vary.
3. The Choke Ring: This binds the upper part of bristles to
the staff and is usually made of metal, silver being the
best as it represents the moon and goddess. Sometimes
there may be several of these used. When more than one
is used the first is silver, the second is gold, and the third
is copper.
(cid:1)40(cid:1)
B
4. The Stalks (bristles): These are grouped evenly around the
opposite end of the staff. The stalks should be about
half the finished length of the broom.
5. The Stalk Tips: The thick ends are held by the choke ring,
with the thin ends extending. All of the stalks should be
bending in the same direction.
6. The Splay Ring: There is only one of these and it keeps
the stalks evenly placed about the stalk. This ring is usu-
ally made of a very strong pliable cording, as it takes up
the strain and pressure of the use that is exerted when
sweeping.
7. The Stalk Butts: These are the thick ends of the bristles
and are bound by the choke ring.
1. The Staff Butt
4. The Stalks
2. The Staff 5. The Stalk Tips
6. The Splay Ring
3. The Choke Ring 7. The Stalk Butts
BESOM (BROOM) MAGICK
Besom Blessing
Items needed: a small bowl of salt and one of water, a
white candle, a small bunch of fresh rosemary, a censer,
a small block of church charcoal, and your besom.
Perform this simple ceremony to bless and consecrate
your broom. This will remove all of the negative thoughts
and vibrations that may be attached to the broom making it
ready for magickal works.
(cid:1)
41(cid:1) The Witch’’’’’s Master Grimoire
Place the candle, the bowl of salt, and the one of water,
along with the censer and rosemary on a small table. Light
the charcoal, and the white candle. Sprinkle some salt over
the broom and then some water as you say:
Water and Earth
Wash thee clean,
Of all that was
And is unclean.
Place some of the rosemary on the hot coal in the censer.
Pick up the broom and pass it through the smoke of the
burning herb, and then through the candle flame as you say:
Essence of Air
Flame of Fire,
Cleanse thee of all
But what I desire.
The broom is now ready to use for both mundane and
magickal works. Use your broom to purge your house of
negative thoughts and vibrations as well as unwanted guests.
Get Rid of Unwanted Guests
Item needed: Besom.
This simple spell works better than anything I have ever
found to get folks to leave. We have all had that moment
when people have overstayed their welcome and don’t have
the good sense to get up and leave. Here is a surefire way to
get them up and out the door post-haste.
Take a broom into a room that is either facing your
unwanted guests or is directly behind them. Close the door.
Lay the broom on the floor with the stalk butts facing the
direction of the guests. Stand behind the broom, and chant
the following:
(cid:1)42(cid:1)
B
Get ye out beyond my door
For I’m weary to the core!
Take a few relaxing breaths, and visualize your guests
leaving. Put the broom away. Within 10 or 15 minutes they
will take their leave, unaware of your magickal nudging.
B
INDING
Binding is a powerful spell used in Witchcraft to control
the actions of another person, or to render an evil Witch
powerless. The binding spell (usually) involves the tying of
knots in a cord. This cord is then bound around a picture or
effigy of the person in order to control their actions. Bind-
ing spells are most often used to stop gossip, or to bind an
individual’s negative actions so they don’t hurt others.
There are some Witches who believe that doing a bind-
ing spell is unethical, and goes against the Wiccan Rede.
However, many believe in the old adage, “An eye for an eye,
and a tooth for a tooth.” If you have weighed all the circum-
stances, exhausted all your resources, and feel justified in
your actions, then maybe a binding spell is needed. As with
all magick, in the end, it is up to the individual to decide
what is right and what is wrong.
BINDING MAGICK
To Stop Gossip
Gossip, no matter who starts it, is always hurtful, and
once the damage has been done it is almost impossible to
undo. If you feel that someone is gossiping about you, then
nip it in the bud before it gets out of hand. I have used the
following spell many times with great results. It is not diffi-
cult to do, and usually works fairly quickly.
(cid:1)
43(cid:1) The Witch’’’’’s Master Grimoire
Items needed: One small lamb’s tongue, fresh lime
juice, three teaspoons of salt, a tag-lock (an object,
such as hair, fingernail clippings, photographs, or
clothing, taken from the person whose gossip you
wish to stop) several yards of red cord or ribbon, plas-
tic wrap, one black candle, a small piece of parch-
ment paper, a red ink pen, and one very sharp knife.
The best time to perform this spell is on a Saturday night
during the waning moon. Gather up all the items called for
and place them on a small table. Light the black candle.
Make a slit in the tongue large enough to put the paper and
tag-lock into. On the parchment paper, write the offender’s
name. Place the parchment paper into the slit in the tongue.
Next place the tag-lock into the tongue on top of the parch-
ment paper. On top of the paper, sprinkle the three teaspoons
of salt and cover it with the lime juice.
Once the tongue is filled tightly, roll it up in the plastic
wrap and wind the red cord around it, chanting the following:
As this tongue doth rot and spoil
Your evil gossip I do foil.
No rest, no peace, nor solace see
Until you stop, so shall it be.
Hang the cord-wrapped tongue in a tree or other high
place outdoors for 10 days. At the end of this time take the
tongue down and bury it near the offender’s home. The
gossip will stop.
To Make Someone Hear You
This spell is perfect for making those around you wake
up and smell the coffee. When the boss or that special some-
one turns a deaf ear towards you, this spell will get their atten-
tion. You will need a picture of the person whose attention
you are trying to get, and a 3’-long piece of white ribbon.
(cid:1)44(cid:1)
B
When you are in close proximity to the subject of the
spell, focus your attention on the picture. Visualize the per-
son giving you his or her undivided attention. Gaze at the
picture, and wind the ribbon around it while you chant:
[Insert name] from this day
You hear what I say.
Look now, and see
Look and listen to me.
Keep the bound picture with you until the person gives
you their full attention. Once you have their attention you
can unbind the photograph.
To Bind a Lover
This spell is designed to bind the love of one person to
another. It works best when both of the parties involved feel
the same way about each other.
Items Needed: Two small branches from an elm tree,
one piece of red twine, florist’s tape, one square of
red felt, a photograph of the person to be bound, a
small bag of Spanish moss, one red candle.
1. Make a doll by taping the branches together as shown.
Fold the red felt square in half and stitch the top,
bottom, and side seams together to form the body of the
doll. Place the sticks inside the red cloth body as pic-
tured, and fill with Spanish moss. Attach the photograph
to the top-neck portion of the doll.
(cid:1)
45(cid:1) The Witch’’’’’s Master Grimoire
2. Hold the completed doll in your hand and focus your
attention on it as you visualize the one you desire. Know
that what you do and say to the doll will impact the
person it represents.
3. Light the red candle. Pick up the doll and pass it through
the flame of the candle as you chant the following:
Lover, lover, come to me
By my side, ever be.
4. Beginning with the head bind the doll with the red twine
as you chant the following:
With love I work this magic spell,
That you shall always love me well.
I bind thee tight your passions to inspire,
For I am all you need and desire.
5. Place the doll next to the red candle. Leave the doll and
the candle together until the candle has completely
burned out. Wrap the doll in red or white silk and keep
in a safe place.
B S
OOK OF HADOWS
The Book of Shadows, often called a grimoire or black
book, is a personal journal in which modern Witches write
their invocations, rituals, and spells. Its name comes to us
from the distant past when magickal journals were penned
in secrecy, beneath the veil of night, and contained myster-
ies of the shadowy Other World. Because it pages were full
of secret formulas, and strange incantations, it was believed
that if you possessed a Witch’s Book of Shadows, you pos-
sessed the key that would unlock the secrets of the universe.
A Witch’s Book of Shadows, like any journal, is a collec-
tion of personal thoughts and deeds. It will also contain
information about drying herbs, observing lunar transitions,
(cid:1)46(cid:1)
B
and instructions for casting spells to attract love, money, and
good health. For the most part, it is an accumulation of
magickal practices the writer has found to be useful, and
doesn’t want to forget.
To most Witches, a Book of Shadows is indispensable. It
contains all their magickal recipes. In the same way a cook-
book helps create a perfect meal, a Book of Shadows helps
create the perfect spell. By keeping a written record of their
magickal activities, Witches are able to chart their progress
and create a lasting tradition that can be passed on to others.
BOOK BLESSING
It is customary to bless or consecrate your Book of Shad-
ows before you begin to work with it. This is a simple pro-
cess, and will not require anything other than a candle, pen,
and a smudge stick (small bundle of dried herbs held together
by cord, usually made of lavender, sage, and sweetgrass).
On the night of the full moon, place the book, pen,
candle, and smudge stick on your altar or small table. Light
the candle, and speak the following invocation over the book.
By force, by will, by potent power,
The spirits I summon this ritual hour
To charge this book with wisdom well
To cast the perfect rite and spell.
Open the book, and on the first page draw a pentagram
with the pen. In the center of the pentagram write your name
(or magickal name if you have one).
(cid:1)
47(cid:1) The Witch’’’’’s Master Grimoire
Close the book and light the smudge. When the smudge
begins to burn, pass the book through the cleansing smoke,
as you say:
All negative thoughts are banished
All unwanted vibrations are gone
Only the forces and powers I wish
Shall be within from this moment on.
Extinguish the candle and smudge. Wrap your book in
black silk and store in a safe place. Although you can share
ideas, it is unwise to allow others to read or handle your
book. When it comes to Witchcraft, it is best to keep your
own counsel.
(cid:1)48(cid:1)
C
C
(cid:1)
49
(cid:1)
C
ANDLE
The history of candle burning is as old as humanity
itself. It originates from fire worship. Early man was in awe
of fire—it warmed him, protected him, and helped him cook
his food. The flame of the hearth was guarded carefully,
shielded against the ravages of wind and rain. Over time,
fire came to represent strength, power, and the ability to see
past the terrors of night.
Symbolically, candlelight represents illumination, the
energizing power of the sun, and the spark of life that
resides within the human soul. As an agency of the fire ele-
ment, candles are quick to respond to magickal incantations
and creative visualization. The simple lighting of a candle
creates an atmosphere of magick, and as the darkness gives
way to the light, desires are brought into reality.
Candles can be used by themselves as a form of magick,
or they may be incorporated as part of a spell. In either case,
the candle itself becomes the point of focus. The color of the
candle and its shape and size all play important roles in the
art of candle magick. The color signifies intent, the design or
shape represents the objective, and the size is equivalent to
the amount of time needed to carry out the spell.(cid:1) The Witch’’’’’s Master Grimoire
Color is of primary importance in candle magick. There
are 12 basic colors, which offer different sensory vibrations.
Red is the most physically potent and powerful, and violet is
the most passive and spiritually receptive. The primary col-
ors of the light spectrum (red, orange, yellow, green, blue,
indigo, and violet) emit specific energies, which are symbolic
of their intrinsic properties. These colors move energy out-
ward and forward, as well as inward and backward.
In addition to the seven primary colors, there are five
additional colors used in the art of candle magick. These are
black, white, gray, pink, and brown. Black anchors and ab-
sorbs; white encourages and supports; gray is seldom used
because it is considered to be void, without movement; pink
attracts and entices; and brown stabilizes and sustains.
Burning times (that is, how long the candles should burn)
are as essential to candle magick as color is. Each color of
the spectrum has its own special wavelength or vibrational
frequency. This vibrational frequency is the equivalent of
motion and energy, which is the amount of time needed to
activate a spell. Therefore, a candle that requires a burning
time of four hours will take four times longer to work than a
candle that requires only one hour to burn. However, the
longer it takes a spell to work, and the more energy involved
in its formulation, the more enduring its results.
WORKING WITH CANDLES
The first step in candle magick is to choose a candle
whose color and shape represent your desire. Next you will
have to dress, or energize, the candle. This is done by anoint-
ing the entire candle with an appropriate oil. The oil is usu-
ally made from a plant or flower that also represents your
desire. Place some of the oil on your fingertips. As you con-
centrate on your desire, rub the oil onto the candle, starting
from the center and rubbing upward. Then rub the oil from
(cid:1)50(cid:1)
C
Candle Color Chart
Candle Meaning Burning
color of color time
Red Courage, strength, survival, One hour
power, lust, immediate action.
Pink Love, friendship, open the heart, One hour
calm the emotions.
Orange Action, attraction, selling, bring Two hours
about desired results.
Yellow Communication, selling oneself, Three hours
persuasion, attraction.
Green Love, fertility, money, luck, health, Four hours
personal goals.
Blue Creativity, tranquility, peace, Three hours
perception.
Indigo Wisdom, self-awareness, Two hours
psychic abilities.
Violet Power, ambition, tension, One hour
spiritual development.
Black Protection, return or release One hour
negativity, power.
Brown Stability, grounding, earth rites, Four hours
create indecision.
White Universal color, can be used for No set time
any work. All general candle
magick.
Gold Prosperity, attraction, wealth, One hour
increase.
(cid:1)
51(cid:1) The Witch’’’’’s Master Grimoire
the center downward. Be sure to cover the entire candle with
the oil as you infuse it with your desire.
Candle Magick Hints
(cid:2)
Whenever possible make your own candles. While the
wax is in a liquid form, add a corresponding oil, herbs,
or flower petals. For example, if you are doing a money
spell you could add Heliotrope oil and mint leaves.
(cid:2)
When dressing the candle, close your eyes, concen-
trate, and visualize what the candle represents. See in
your mind’s eye the manifestation of your desire.
(cid:2)
Always keep in mind, and allow for, the burning time
of the candle when scripting a spell or ritual.
(cid:2)
When creating your own spells, always use the proper
phase of the moon and planetary symbolism. This
will align the spell with the natural flow of energy pro-
duced by the moon and corresponding planet, giv-
ing the spell more power.
Astrological Candle Color Chart
Aquarius January 20—February 18 Purple
Pisces February 19—March 20 Aqua
Aries March 21—April 19 Pink
Taurus April 20—May 20 Orange
Gemini May 21—June 21 Violet
Cancer June 22—July 22 Green
Leo July 23—August 22 Red
Virgo August 23- September 22 Yellow
Libra September 23—October 22 Blue
Scorpio October 23—November 21 Gold
Sagittarius November 22—December 21 Red
Capricorn December 22—January 19 Brown
(cid:1)52(cid:1)
C
Symbolic Image Candle Chart
Candle Shape Symbolic Purpose
Cat To change one’s luck. Black cat: change
luck from bad to good; green cat: good
luck with gambling and money; red cat:
good luck with love.
Double Action To attract favorable circumstances and
repel negative influences at the same
time.
Human Image Used to represent the individual the spell
is being worked on. Red for love and
passion; pink for friendship; green for
healing and marriage; white for blessing;
black for releasing negativity.
Seven Knob One knob is burned each day to make a
wish come true.
The Seven Day Glass-enclosed novena. Used for specific
purpose printed on the candle glass.
CANDLE MAGICK SPELLS
Candle Love-Binding Spell
Use this spell to bind the love of another to you, or to
reinforce the qualities of love within an already existing
relationship.
Items needed: One red candle, one astrologically col-
ored candle to represent yourself (see chart), and one
astrologically colored candle to represent the one you
(cid:1)
53(cid:1) The Witch’’’’’s Master Grimoire
desire, a picture of yourself and a picture of the one
you desire, a small jar with a metal lid, love-drawing
oil (see page 148), a small sharp knife, and matches.
On the night of the full moon, as close to midnight as
possible, place all the items called for on your altar or on a
small table. Place the photographs facing each other into the
jar and screw the lid on very tightly. Then prepare the astro-
logical candles. Use the knife to write the name of your de-
sired one on his or her candle, and then write your name on
your candle. Next dress both candles with the love-drawing
oil. Then cut two inches off the bottom of each candle, leav-
ing the wick in tact. Tie the wicks of the two candles together
to make one candle, and as you do so say the following:
I tie this knot, to bind the heart
Of my desire [subject’s name] to me.
The next step is to attach the tied candles to the top of
the jar. Light the red candle, drip a pool of wax on the lid of
the jar to act as the adhesive, and then attach the tied candles
to it.
Light the candle that represents you and say the following:
At this time, and from this hour
You feel my love, you feel my power.
Now light the candle that represents the one you desire
and say the following:
Feel my passion, feel the fire
I am the one you desire.
(cid:1)54(cid:1)
C
When the candles have completely burned out, take the
jar and bury it in the ground as close the your loved one’s
house as possible. Before the next full moon you should be
enjoying each other’s company.
Love-Drawing Spell
This spell is ideal to get someone to pay attention to
you, draw someone you already know closer to you, or make
your lover a better lover.
Items needed: A picture of the desired one and some
of his or her hair and handwriting to use as tag-locks.
You will also need a red cloth pouch, one red image
(sexually aligned to the gender you wish to attract), a
candle, rose petals, and rose oil.
Place the candle in front of you, along with the picture
and all of the needed items. Dress the candle with the rose
oil as you visualize your lover coming closer to you and be-
ing more attentive. When you feel the time is right, light the
candle and chant the following to build power and energy.
Direct this energy into the candle.
Candle of power,
From this hour,
Bring unto me
The love that I see.
That he/she shall requite
My attentions this night,
Let him/her see only me.
As I will, So Mote It Be!
Allow the candle to burn completely out. Carry the pouch
filled with the rose petals and your lover’s items with you
whenever you are going to be together. It is also a good idea
to wear some of the rose oil.
(cid:1)
55(cid:1) The Witch’’’’’s Master Grimoire
Money-Drawing Spell
Try this spell the next time you need some quick cash, to
pay off that last annoying bill or to buy a gift for a loved one.
Items needed: One green pillar candle, a new one dol-
lar bill, a piece of green construction paper cut into
four even squares, and a pen.
On the night of the new moon, place all the required
items on your altar, or on a small table. On each square of
green paper write out the amount of money you need. Next,
write the amount of money you need on one side of the
green candle, and write your name on the other side. Wrap
the four squares of paper in the dollar bill, making a small
flat packet. Set the green candle on top of the packet, and
light the candle as you chant the following:
Money, money, come to me,
As I will So Mote It Be!
At the end of four hours snuff out the candle. Repeat
the spell every night until the candle has completely burned
out. Once the candle has burned out, place one square of
the paper, and the dollar bill, in your wallet or purse. Place
one square of the paper under your pillow, one square in
your desk at work, and the other square under your front
door mat. If your request was a reasonable one you should
have the amount of money you need by the next new moon.
Black Cat Protection Spell
A good spell to ward off the evil intentions of another,
block psychic attack, or turn your luck around.
Items needed: One black cat candle, black cat oil (com-
posed of patchouli and frankincense), and a mirror.
On the night of the waxing moon, as close to midnight
as possible, begin the spell. On your altar, or a small table,
(cid:1)56(cid:1)
C
place the mirror reflecting side up. Dress the black cat candle
with the black cat oil. As you do this, visualize your luck chang-
ing and good things coming to you. Next, place the cat candle
on the mirror and light it as you chant the following:
Black cat power
From this hour
Reflect the light
Make things right.
Allow the black cat candle to burn for one hour. Repeat
this spell every night, at the same time, until the full moon.
On the night of the full moon, place the mirror with the
black cat on it in the moonlight. Repeat the chant, and allow
the candle to burn out. When the candle has been consumed,
discard any wax left and put the mirror away.
C
HARMS
The word charm comes from the French charme, mean-
ing chant or song. In magick, to charm is to physically act
upon an object or an individual, compelling it to change its
course of action. This is usually accomplished through spe-
cial rhythmic chants, songs, or music which bring the object
or individual under the control of the Witch or magician.
To our ancestors, charms were used to control malevo-
lent spirits, which were believed to be the cause of human
suffering. The local magician, priest, Witch, or wizard would
be called upon by the stricken to utter the right words—
speak a spell, formula, or invocation—over the person or
property that was under attack. The charm would then ward
off the evil eye or malevolent force.
With the advent of the written word, it became popular
to imbue charms with a certain amount of permanency by
inscribing the magickal verse or formula onto a variety of
materials, such a wood, paper, bone, stone, wax, clay, and
(cid:1)
57(cid:1) The Witch’’’’’s Master Grimoire
even precious gemstones and metal. The charm was engraved
directly onto the object, and worn or carried by the user.
In contemporary Witchcraft, a charm is a simple poem
or verse that is spoken over an object, such as an amulet, to
endow it with magickal qualities. The charm, once spoken,
exudes a subtle energy, which entices and influences control
over its quarry. Once properly charmed, an object is capable
of attracting love, creating good fortune, and providing pro-
tection for its user.
CHARM MAGICK
Charm of The Yellow Rose
Dab a small amount of your favorite perfume or cologne
on a tissue. Take a long-stem yellow rose, and with great feel-
ing and emotion, charm it with the following verse:
The stars above, in darkness shine,
With light that fills the heavens divine.
So bright with radiance our love glows,
It out shines the sun, and dims all foes.
Wrap the rose in the scented tissue and place in the
refrigerator. As soon as possible, find the opportunity to give
it to the one you love.
The Marriage Charm
Bind two small gold rings together with a white ribbon.
Hold the bound rings in both hands as you chant the fol-
lowing over them:
With body and spirit
As these rings entwine
Unite our souls
Our essence combine.
(cid:1)58(cid:1)
C
Place the rings in your pocket or purse. Carry them with
you whenever you are with the one you wish to marry.
Charm of Success
Purchase a small gold or brass sun disk pendant from a
jewelry or department store. Hang the pendant in your
window so that the sun will shine on it ever day. Allow the
pendant to absorb the sun’s rays for one week. Then on a
Sunday morning, stand in the rays of the sun, and, holding
your pendant, chant the following charm over it:
Through sun and will, and patient skill,
Within this disk I now instill,
That I shall fare successfully,
For this is what I will to be.
Protection Charm
For this you will need a pentagram pendant and a bowl
of salt water. Holding the pendant in your left hand and the
bowl of salt water in your right, turn to the West. Slowly pour
the water over the pendant as you speak the following charm:
Elements of earth and sea
Return to all by power of three.
That which may be sent to me
Unless I have summoned it to be.
I am protected from this night
By the spirits of power and might.
Wear the pentacle for protection on a daily basis. Once a
month, at the dark of the moon, repeat the charm to keep
your pentacle properly charged.
Personal Power Charm
For this special charm you will need a small diamond or
clear cut quartz crystal. On a Sunday morning as close to
the full moon as possible, wash your diamond in clear spring
(cid:1)
59(cid:1) The Witch’’’’’s Master Grimoire
water, dry it, and hold it up so the sun’s rays shine through
it. Focus on the stone and chant the following charm to
empower it:
Thou who rule the sun and skies,
By whose power man lives and dies.
Impart thy power, impart thy might,
Within this stone of pure white light.
C
RYSTAL
There are many different kinds of crystals, but quartz is
the master gemstone of them all. It can be found throughout
the world and is especially noted for its healing qualities.
Quartz crystal is composed of silicon and oxygen (SiO2)
which is considered to be the building block of minerals. In
fact, most of our planet is composed of minerals containing
SiO2. Silicon dioxide is also an important component of the
human body, which may be the physical basis for our con-
nection to crystals.
Crystals are formed clear, like ice, they only change color
when other minerals are introduced into their structure. The
addition of other minerals, such as iron and magnesium,
that produces rose quartz, yellow quartz, and amethyst.
The quartz crystal is one of Earth’s greatest minerals. It
has been used to amplify sound in loudspeakers, micro-
phones, and other audio equipment. In watches and clocks,
quartz helps synchronize time. Quartz crystal has also been
used in laser and optical technology.
In Witchcraft and magick, quartz crystals are used for
good luck charms and protection talismans and as love amu-
lets and healing agents. They are also used in conjunction
with various planets and constellations of the zodiac to
enhance ritual effectiveness. No matter how they are used,
crystals help magnify and extend personal energy and power.
(cid:1)60(cid:1)
C
The wonderful thing about working with crystals is that
they have the ability to reinforce and sustain human energy
vibrations. When this happens, the physical body is strength-
ened and rejuvenated. This can be very helpful, especially
when one is involved in a physically demanding situation.
Quartz crystal is considered to be the master power
stone. It is associated with both fire and water. Quartz has
the ability to focus the sun’s energy rays to ignite wood chips
or other combustible material, and it resembles solidified
water or ice. Witches wear crystals to represent the Goddess,
the moon, and psychic power. Crystals are used for protec-
tion, healing, and power.
CRYSTAL MAGICK
Working with crystals is a direct experience with energy
as it moves from moment to moment. There is no way to
develop standard techniques that can be learned and ap-
plied to everyone. People are unique and different, and so
are their energy outputs. When working with crystals or
stones, the energy output of the individual handling the crys-
tal produces the final outcome.
Learning to work with crystals is easy. Begin by experi-
menting with a single quartz crystal. Choose one small
enough to carry, but large enough to work with. In addi-
tion to size, clarity and perfection of the crystal should be
considered—make sure your crystal is reasonably clear and
free of chips and scratches.
Once you have selected a crystal to work with, you will
need to cleanse and charge it. Cleansing the crystal will re-
move any previous thoughts and vibrations that may be on
it. Charging the crystal will program it with your thoughts
and vibrations.
(cid:1)
61(cid:1) The Witch’’’’’s Master Grimoire
Crystal Cleansing
Items needed: Sea salt, an empty bowl, incense burner
or smudge pot, charcoal, matches, smudging stick
or loose smudge incense, and a protective pouch for
carrying the crystal.
Place your crystal in the empty bowl and cover it with
salt. Place the bowl where it will receive full sunlight and
moonlight for three days. On the fourth day, remove the
crystal from the salt and rinse in cool water. Light the smudge
stick or smudge incense. Hold the crystal in the smoke ema-
nating from the incense as you chant the following:
All negative thoughts are banished
All unwanted vibrations are gone
Only the forces and powers I wish
Shall be with me from this moment on!
Repeat this process for about a minute or until you are
sure the crystal is clean and free of negative vibrations.
Crystal Programming
After a crystal has been properly cleansed it should be pro-
grammed for personal use. This is a simple process which im-
beds personal feelings and desires deep within the heart of the
crystal. Once programmed, a crystal becomes a unique magickal
tool attuned to its owner’s individual vibratory frequency.
Programming a crystal for personal use is easily done.
Crystals attract and hold energy vibrations, which makes
them useful tools for focusing and directing energy. Think
of your crystal as a mini-computer, and what you program
into it designates what it will be able to do. The thought-
forms used to energize the crystal will determine the power
and frequency level at which it will vibrate. If you program
the crystal with love, it will radiate love. Conversely, if you
(cid:1)62(cid:1)
C
program the crystal with determination, aggressiveness, and
force, these will be the vibrations it will emit.
Once a crystal has been cleaned, it is ready to be pro-
grammed for personal use. Of the many ways to program a
crystal, the following two methods are the most common.
Hold the crystal in your hand and create a thought-
form (mental picture) of what you want to happen. For
example, if you want to program the crystal for good health,
visualize yourself energetic and in glowing health. You will
then need to force this vision or thought-form into the crys-
tal. To intensify the visualization, chant or speak your desire
directly into the crystal.
The other way to program a crystal involves holding the
crystal over your heart. Create a thought-form of your
desire and allow this picture to flow directly from your heart
into the crystal. To empower the mental picture, reaffirm it
audibly through prayer or chant.
Crystal Gazing
At the stroke of midnight, just before the moon begins
to wax, is the best time to look into the future. You will need
a crystal, a clear glass bowl filled with spring water, and a
white taper candle.
Place your crystal in the bowl and cover it with the spring
water. Place the candle just behind the bowl and light it.
With your right index finger, slowly stir the water around the
crystal as you chant:
Blessed spirits of the night
Bless me now with second sight.
With your intense focus, the water will begin to cloud
over, and a mist of psychic awareness will fill the bowl as you
stir the water. When the mist begins to flow out of the bowl,
stop stirring the water and look directly into the bowl. Focus
your attention on the crystal and repeat the following:
(cid:1)
63(cid:1) The Witch’’’’’s Master Grimoire
Fire and water, crystal clear
Let the visions now appear.
Visions of the future will appear. When the visions begin
to fade, make a mental note of what you saw. Snuff out the
candle and place your crystal under your pillow. The crystal
will provide you with more information during your dream
time. Later, write your visions down in your book of shadows.
(cid:1)64(cid:1)
D
D
(cid:1)
65
(cid:1)
D
RAGON
The dragon is a fantastic beast that appears in almost
every mythological tradition throughout the world. Often
depicted as a mix of several different creatures, it represents
the four elements of life: air, fire, water, and earth. The dragon
has the wings of a bird and is covered with the scales of a fish
or snake. It is capable of breathing fire, and usually guards a
horde of treasure deep within the earth. In pre-Christian
Europe and the Far East, the dragon was seen a symbol of
power, virility, and superhuman strength, and was consid-
ered to be a friend of mankind.
In magick, the dragon is wholly beneficent and is seen
as the manifestation of life-giving waters (the serpent), and
the breath of life (the bird). Generally it is considered to be a(cid:1) The Witch’’’’’s Master Grimoire
celestial power, and has the attributes of both the sun and
moon, masculine and feminine, good and evil sides of
nature. The dragon and serpent are usually interchangeable
as representations of the unmanifest and the creation of form
and matter.
The dragon represents the highest spiritual power, the
supernatural, and the spirit of change. When you align your
forces with those of the dragon, you gain strength and power.
Its magick can help you overcome negative thoughts and it
can teach you how to live abundantly.
DRAGON MAGICK
Dragon Prosperity Spell
This spell is designed to create prosperity. It works best if you
have a job and are looking for a pay raise or bonus.
Items needed: One large green pillar candle, dragon’s
blood incense, incense burner and charcoal, dragon
prosperity oil, a green silk pouch, five new coins (a
penny, nickel, dime, quarter, and half-dollar), and an
altar or small table.
(To make dragon’s blood incense, mix 1/2 tsp. dragon’s
blood resin with 1/2 tsp. allspice, 1/2 tsp myrrh resin,
1/2 tsp. dried orange peel, 1/2 tsp. sandalwood pow-
der. To the mixture add 3-drops cinnamon oil, and 3
drops orange spice oil. To make dragon prosperity
oil, mix 5 drops cinnamon oil with 3 drops orange
spice oil and 2 drops sandalwood oil in a small bottle.)
(To make dragon prosperity oil, in a small bottle mix 5
drops cinnamon oil with 3 drops orange spice oil,
and 2 drops sandalwood oil.)
The first thing you will need to do is engrave the figure
of a dragon on the candle. This can be easily done using a
(cid:1)66(cid:1)
D
ball point pen or small sculpting tool. The engraving does
not have to be an elaborate work of art, just a simple outline
will do.
Begin on the night of the new moon. Place the dragon
candle on your altar with the incense burner in front of it.
Place the coins on the left side of the candle and the silk
pouch on the right side.
Light the green candle and charcoal. When the coal is
glowing red, sprinkle some incense on it. Pick up the penny,
hold it tightly, close your eyes and visualize the dragon in
his cave. See his treasure and all the wealth he guards. In
your mind’s eye, slowly approach the dragon. Show the
dragon your coin. Then, with great respect, ask the dragon
to expand your wealth as you say:
O great dragon of wealth and power,
I greet thee in this sacred hour.
Great good fortune on me now shower.
That my prosperity shall blossom and flower.
Stay with the dragon for a short time. Listen to what he
says, and take heed of his advice. When the dragon begins to
fade, leave his cave and return to the present. Place the penny
in the green silk pouch. Thank the dragon by saying:
I thank thee great dragon of power and might
For granting my wishes on this night.
Leave the candle to burn for four hours and then snuff
it out. Repeat this spell every night until all of the coins have
been placed in the green pouch. When the last coin has been
placed in the pouch, allow the candle to completely burn
out. The rite is then complete.
(cid:1)
67(cid:1) The Witch’’’’’s Master Grimoire
D D M
RAWING OWN THE OON
It was believed by the ancient Greeks and Romans that
Witches had the power to draw down the moon from the
sky. This assumption is not without reason. Should a witch
be seen invoking the Goddess beneath a full moon, she would
naturally be standing in a position where the beams from
the moon would highlight her person, making it seem as if
she had a direct link to the lunar orb.
In modern Wicca, the rite of Drawing Down the Moon
or Calling Down the Moon is of considerable importance.
During this potent invocation, the practitioner enters a
trance-like state of altered consciousness and draws the es-
sence of the Goddess into herself. The energy of the God-
dess is then focused toward a magickal act, divining the
future, or spiritual revelation.
Drawing Down the Moon involves being completely
open and receptive to the feminine spirit of nature. It is
usually done out of doors, beneath a full moon. Stand with
your arms outstretched, pointing upward at the moon. Once
you are relaxed, focus on the moon. Feel its rays reach down
and touch you. When you feel the time is right, slowly begin
the following invocation, building to an emotional climax.
(cid:1)68(cid:1)
D
INVOCATION FOR DRAWING DOWN THE MOON
Bewitching goddess of the crossroads
Whose secrets are kept in the night,
You are half remembered, half forgotten
And are found in the shadows of night.
From the misty hidden caverns
In ancient magick days,
Comes the truth once forbidden
Of thy heavenly veiled ways.
Cloaked in velvet darkness
A dancer in the flames
You who are called Diana, Hecate,
And many other names.
I call upon your wisdom
And beseech thee from this time,
To enter my expectant soul
That our essence shall combine.
I beckon thee O ancient one
From far and distant shore,
Come, come be with me now
This I ask, and nothing more.
(cid:1)
69(cid:1) The Witch’’’’’s Master Grimoire
e
(cid:1)70
(cid:1)
E
ARTH
Earth is physical reality. It symbolically represents both
the womb and the grave. Earth is the element that brings
forth life and then reclaims it. Magically, earth is viewed as
the final outcome, a place where the other elements can
physically manifest their nature. Earth is our base of opera-
tion, in which we exhibit the final product of our imagina-
tion. Earth is the magician’s altar, a place to create change in
accordance with will.
EARTH MAGICK
Ivy Love Spell
Use this spell to win the affections of the one you desire
if he or she has not returned your feelings of love.
In an earthenware pot, plant a fresh cutting of ivy (which
represents constant and ever growing love). Braid two lengths
of red and green ribbon together. Wind the ribbon around
the pot and tie in a large bow. Place the potted plant in a
window where it will receive sunlight during the day and
moonlight at night.(cid:1)
E
Earth Correspondence Chart
VALUES Responsibility, perseverance, experience,
authority.
COLORS Yellow, brown, russet.
SYMBOLS Square, cornucopia, spindle, scythe, salt.
TOOLS Shield, pentacle, flail, horn.
PLANTS Alfalfa, cotton, oats, patchouli, vetivert,
wheat.
STONES Moss agate, jasper, malachite, peridot,
tourmaline.
PLACES Caves, forests, fields, gardens, canyons.
ZODIAC Capricorn, Taurus, Virgo.
ARCHANGEL Auriel.
TIME Midnight, winter.
DIRECTION North.
PROCESS Responsible, practical, organized, steady,
grounded.
Each time you water the plant, chant the following:
As the ivy does grow
To my true love show.
I shall be his (her) delight
Both day and night.
Be sure to nurture the plant carefully, for as it grows, so
will you gain the love of the one you desire.
The Love Box
For this spell, you will need a small ceramic or wooden
box and the following items:
(cid:1)
71(cid:1) The Witch’’’’’s Master Grimoire
(cid:2)
A scoop of earth from your desired one’s front yard.
(cid:2)
A lock of your desired one’s hair.
(cid:2)
Seven pine needles (for constancy).
(cid:2)
One rosebud (for love).
(cid:2)
A lock of your hair.
(cid:2)
A pinch of fresh lavender (for harmony).
Place all the items into the box. Close the box and bind
it tightly with red and gold ribbon. At midnight on the night
of the full moon, bury the box beneath an apple tree. Draw a
heart in the earth above the spot where the box is buried.
Chant the following nine times:
Power of earth
To love give birth.
When you have completed the spell, turn and walk away.
Do not look back. The love you desire will certainly come
your way.
Earth Prosperity Spell
This spell is very effective if you are looking for a job.
Begin on the night of the new moon. In a small brown paper
bag, collect earth from the following places:
(cid:2)
A bank near where you live.
(cid:2)
A store where you enjoy shopping.
(cid:2)
The company you would like to work for.
(cid:2)
The nearest crossroads.
(cid:2)
Railroad tracks running North and South.
The following night, inscribe an orange candle with the
name of the company you would like to work for. Place the
candle in the center of your altar (or on a small table).
Around the candle, make a small circle with the earth you
(cid:1)72(cid:1)
E
have collected, as you verbally declare all the things you
will do once you have the job.
Light the candle. In your mind’s eye see
yourself working at a job, spending money,
shopping at your favorite store, making deci-
sions, and even traveling. Allow the candle to
burn for two hours. Repeat each night until the
candle has been consumed. Scoop up the earth that sur-
rounds the candle and place it in a small orange pouch, along
with a small crystal. Carry the pouch with you when looking
for the job you desire.
EARTH INCENSE AND FRAGRANCE
The following herbs, oils, and incense mixtures should
be used when doing earth magick. Because herbs are related
to earth, their vibrations will enhance all your magickal works,
especially those affiliated with the earth element.
Honeysuckle (money, protection)
Wear honeysuckle oil to attract money. Mix honeysuckle oil
with a bit of vervain for protection. Burn honeysuckle in-
cense on the night of the new moon to attract money.
Magnolia (fidelity)
Wear magnolia oil to keep loved ones faithful. Burn magnolia
incense in the bedroom to maintain a faithful relationship.
Patchouli (money, lust)
Wear patchouli oil to entice passion in the one you love or
desire.
Vervain (protection, purification, youth)
Mix vervain and patchouli oil together and wear as a veil of
powerful protection. Mix vervain with sage to cleanse and
(cid:1)
73(cid:1) The Witch’’’’’s Master Grimoire
protect your home from negative influences. A drop of ver-
vain oil on a cloth placed inside your bed pillow will keep
you feeling young.
Vetivert (love, luck, money)
Wear a drop of vetivert to attract both love and money. Gam-
blers rub vetivert oil on their hands before playing cards for
good luck.
E
YE
The eye is considered to be the primary organ of sense
perception. It is closely associated with light, the spirit, and
the sun. The eye symbolizes spiritual and mental percep-
tion and is considered to be the mirror of the soul, the organ
of spiritual and mental expression.
The right eye is associated with activity, the future, and
the sun. The left eye is associated with passivity, the past,
and the moon. In some cultures and religions (such as Bud-
dhism), a third eye is envisioned in the middle of the fore-
head, just above the nose, and is considered to be a symbol
of inner vision and power.
In magick, heterotopic eyes are those that have been
transferred anatomically to various parts of the body, such
as the hands, wings, torso, arms, and different parts of the
head. These eyes are the equivalent of spiritual sight or clair-
voyance. When the eyes are situated on the hand, it signifies
that the individual has great clairvoyant powers.
(cid:1)74(cid:1)
E
The most widely used eye symbol in magick is that of
Horus. In ancient Egypt, the right eye of Horus, the sky
god, was his solar eye, and the left eye was his udjat eye, or
eye of the moon. The udjat eye symbolizes the power of light
and was one of the most sacred and powerful protective
amulets in Egyptian magic.
Depending on its employment, and surrounding sym-
bolism, the single eye can represent the forces of good
or evil as the single eye of god, or the destructive power
of the Cyclops.
(cid:1)
75(cid:1) The Witch’’’’’s Master Grimoire
F
(cid:1)76
(cid:1)
F
AIRY
Fairies are magickal creatures endowed with the powers
of shapeshifting and invisibility. They dwell in an invisible
kingdom known as middle or lower earth. Often depicted as
small humanoid beings with diaphanous wings, they look like
tiny angels. However, they are not angels, they are unpredict-
able, and they can be as puckish as they are benevolent.
Sometimes referred to as “little people,” fairies are an
important part of most cultures, religious traditions, and folk
beliefs throughout the world. In European culture, they are
believed to be nature spirits who dwell in the trees, plants, and
waterways. Christianity seems to think they are Lucifer’s fallen
angels and therefore evil. Other folk beliefs, especially those of
African origin, view them as souls of the dead or ancestors.
Celtic culture has probably done the most to promote the
idea of fairies, who are believed to be the descendants of the
small, dark, Neolithic people who invaded early Europe.
Being small and dark and living close to the land allowed
them to quickly hide from their enemies. This ability, along
with their elusive mannerisms, led people to believe they were
capable of magick, shapeshifting, and invisibility.(cid:1)
F
When the old Pagan religions died out, the fairies were
relegated to the realm of myth and fantasy. We find the Great
Goddess transformed into the Good Fairy Godmother or
Queen of Fairies. The Horned God became the Fairy King,
Puck, and the trickster. Those with less appealing traits were
relegated to the realms of devils and demons.
THE FAIRY REALM
Auki
The mountain spirit of Peru who inhabits the high Andes,
called upon by the brujos (shamans) to heal the sick. The
brujos will call the auki by whistling. The auki will descend,
and channel its power through the brujos.
Bogie
A frightening goblin of English folklore. The bogie is
described as little, black, and hairy. It is considered danger-
ous, mischievous, sly, and is renowned for its intelligence.
Parents would use the threat of the bogie to frighten young
children into good behavior.
Brownie
A household spirit popular in northern English and Scot-
tish folklore, the brownie is a very small, brown, shaggy
human and usually dresses in ragged brown clothes. Brown-
ies are considered to be most industrious when it comes to
such household chores as grinding grain, churning butter,
and plowing. They love to help humans with their work,
especially with tedious tasks. Brownies are thanked with a
bowl of fresh cream and freshly baked bread. If criticized,
they will undo what they have already done and destroy a
good deal more.
(cid:1)
77(cid:1) The Witch’’’’’s Master Grimoire
Deva
In New Age philosophy, devas are the guardians of nature
and are responsible for building up forms on the inner planes
as well as on the physical plane. The devas hold the keys of
fate for all forms around us. They appear in every shape and
size, from the earthly gnome to the highest archangel.
Elf
Found in British, Scandinavian, and Teutonic folklore, elves
are tiny, human-shaped supernatural beings who resemble
little old men. However, elf maidens are considered to be
young and very beautiful. They live in communities or king-
doms, hidden in the hollows of trees, long burrows, or in
mounds. They are ruled over by an elf king and queen. Elves
exert their powers over humans whenever they can, usually
with mischievous intent. When offended by humans they
will take revenge by stealing babies, cattle, milk, and jewels,
and they have been know to enchant the offender and hold
them for years. Elves emerge after sunset to dance in the
moonlight, swim in shallow pools, and frolic in the woods.
Gnome
Considered to be a nature spirit or elemental, gnomes
resemble dwarfs with small stocky bodies, and usually ap-
pear as little old men dressed in monks’ habits. Gnomes live
in the earth, the element they represent, and are the guard-
ians of mother nature’s treasures.
Goblin
A grotesque, diminutive, malicious earth spirit. Popular in
European folklore, goblins are said to be knee high, with
heavy gray hair and beards. They inhabit the homes of hu-
mans, where they indulge in poltergeist activities. They are
not fond of adults but do seem to like children, as they have
been known to protect them and bring them gifts.
(cid:1)78(cid:1)
F
Imp/Impa
A mischievous minor fiend often described as being a child-
like offspring of the Devil. Imps manifest in many different
forms. The most popular form is that of an evil-looking
infant with tiny horns protruding from its head and tiny
wings from its shoulders. Imps were the star attractions at
Witch trials, as they were considered to be the familiars of
the accused.
Leprechaun
The folklore of Ireland is filled with famous tales of this fairy
shoemaker. The Leprechaun is depicted as having a wizened
face, gray beard, and twinkling eyes. He wears a red jacket
with silver buttons, brown breeches, black, silver-buckled
shoes, and a high crowned green hat. In pictures, he usually
appears in an apron, holding a hammer and mending shoes.
This wee creature is tricky, and likes to make mischief with
humans. He also has a reputation for having a huge stash of
gold hidden in a secret place.
Nymph
Nymphs are female water spirits that appear in classical Greek
and Roman mythology. They are portrayed as beautiful your
maidens dressed in gossamer gowns, with long flowing hair.
The nymphs would attend to gods and entertain them with
dancing and music. Like most spirit creatures, nymphs were
both benevolent and malevolent toward humans.
Pixie
These small creatures are said to have red hair, small, turned
up noses, pointed ears, and pale, youthful faces. They espe-
cially attracted to gardens in bloom, and take up residence
under toadstools. Pixies have mixed emotions when it comes
to humans. However, if they take a liking to someone they
(cid:1)
79(cid:1) The Witch’’’’’s Master Grimoire
will help him or her out with household chores and garden-
ing. They also like to work with gold, silver, and bronze. Some
believe that the residue from their metal work is the main
ingredient in Pixie dust, a magickal powder use to make
wishes come true.
FAIRY MAGICK
Because fairies are connected to nature,
their spells are usually performed outdoors.
A small brook, a secret lily pond, the base of
your favorite tree, or a field of wild flowers all
make excellent settings for fairy magick. Even
large, lush window boxes, overflowing with fragrant herbs
and delicate blossoms, can serve as a haven for the wee folk.
Fairy Wishing Spell
For this spell you will need a small white birthday candle,
a silver coin, seven moon cookies (sugar cookies cut into
crescent moons), and a secluded wooded area where you can
be alone.
As you walk through the woods, keep a close eye out for
Fairy circles, small circular areas surrounded by inedible red
fungi with white spots. It is believed that fairies meet within
these rings to celebrate their magickal rites. When you find
a fairy circle, carefully place your coin in the center of it. Set
the candle on top of the coin, light it, and make your wish.
When the candle has completely burned out, place the moon
cookies around the coin, state your wish aloud, and then
walk away. If you return to the spot and your coin and candle
are gone, you will know that your wish has been granted.
Fairy Enchantments
If there is one thing that a fairy takes great pride in, it is
the ability to charm and enchant an unsuspecting human.
(cid:1)80(cid:1)
F
Using herbs, flowers, and mystical incantations, the skillful
fairy makes a magickal dust that can be used to inspire love,
protect loved ones, and bring forth great riches when
sprinkled on the ground or over an unsuspecting human.
Fairy Dust
Items needed: A blender or coffee grinder, silver glit-
ter, dark blue jar, three silver coins, silver paint or a
silver marker, and the following dried herbs ground
into a fine powder:
(cid:2)
1 tbsp. woodruff
(cid:2)
1 tbsp. clover
(cid:2)
1 tbsp. rose petals
(cid:2)
1 tbsp. jasmine
(cid:2)
1 Tbsp. meadowsweet
Place the powder into the dark blue jar. On the outside
of the jar, inscribe the following symbol with the silver paint
or marker:
On May eve as the sun begins to set, place your jar of
Fairy dust in the center of a Fairy circle. Kneel next to the
circle, uncap the jar, and chant the following nine times:
Nature spirits and fairy friends
Bless this dust to serve my ends.
I place my trust and faith in thee
To bring me love, wealth, and prosperity.
(cid:1)
81(cid:1) The Witch’’’’’s Master Grimoire
Rise and leave the area for one hour, giving the fairies
time to bless your powder. When you return, thank the fair-
ies for their help, retrieve the jar, and leave the three silver
coins in its place.
Sprinkle the powder over a sleeping loved one to increase
passion, sprinkle on the threshold of a business to attract
new customers, or sprinkle around the perimeter of your
home to invite happiness and good will.
Fairy Garden Money Spell
Gardens, especially ones designed with a purpose, will
attract good fairies, gnomes, and all manner of beneficial
creatures. Cultivate a nine foot circular patch of earth.
Around the perimeter, place small stones and crystals.
In the center of the circle place a stone garden gnome.
Around the gnome, plant a mixture of marigolds and clover.
Each day, spend some time with the gnome. Make friends
with him and beseech him to make your wealth grow as the
garden does. To ensure he follows your wishes, chant the
following each time you water the garden.
Nature spirits everywhere
My love and energy I now share.
With cool water this charge I give
Plants now grow, blossom, and live,
Your gift of wealth I seek to share
In return I give you loving care.
As the garden grows, so will your wealth and prosperity.
(cid:1)82(cid:1)
F
F
IRE
In the practice of magick, the element of fire relates to
the South, the realm of energy and power. The potential of
this element is expressed in the crackling flames of fire, lust-
ful passions, or disciplines requiring strenuous endeavor.
The element of fire promotes transformation and purifi-
cation. Fire is the life-giving generative power of the sun.
From fire we receive inspiration and personal power. It is the
force that motivates and drives all living organisms. It repre-
sents personal willpower and the force that sparks creation.
Fire Correspondence Chart
VALUES Energy, transformation, strength, power,
courage
COLORS Red, red-orange (as in flames), amber
SYMBOLS Triangle, lightning, flame, salamander
TOOLS Sword, dagger, fire pot, double-headed
ax
PLANTS Basil, bloodroot, dragon’s blood,
ginger, orange, tobacco
STONES Ruby, garnet, diamond, bloodstone,
flint, sunstone
PLACES Volcanoes, ovens, fireplaces, deserts
ZODIAC Aries, Leo, Sagittarius
ARCHANGEL Michael
TIMES Summer, Noon
DIRECTION South
PROCESSES Passion, anger, impetuous, progressive,
valor
(cid:1)
83(cid:1) The Witch’’’’’s Master Grimoire
FIRE MAGICK
Fireplace Magick
This simple spell is used to make a wish come true, and
is especially effective if done on New Year’s Eve. It is also
great way to end a romantic evening or group gathering.
Items needed: One square of red paper and piece of
yellow paper ribbon for each person doing the spell,
a small bottle of heliotrope oil, and a jar of basil.
Light a fire in the fireplace. Write out your wish on the
square of red paper. In the center of the square, place a drop
of the heliotrope oil and a pinch of basil. Fold the paper into
a packet and secure with the yellow ribbon.
Gaze into the fire. Visualize what you want. Speak your
wish out loud, and then toss the packet into the fire. As the
fire consumes the packet, chant the following:
Blazing fire, burning bright
Make my wish come true this night.
Friendship Spell
This spell is done to create friendship or make a friend-
ship stronger. You will need a red candle to represent your-
self and a pink candle to represent your friend.
On the night of the full moon, write your name on the
red candle and your friend’s name on the pink candle. Place
the candles opposite each other on a table, about one foot apart.
Light your candle, light your friend’s candle, and chant
the following:
As the candle flame doth flicker and glow
So this friendship shall blossom and grow.
(cid:1)84(cid:1)
F
In your mind’s eye, visualize you and your friend
together, sharing warm moments and having a good time.
When the vision begins to fade, snuff out the candles. Re-
peat each night until the next full moon. At this time, allow
the candles to burn out. The spell is ended and your friend-
ship should be going strong.
FIRE INCENSE AND FRAGRANCE
Allspice (money, luck)
Wear allspice oil to increase luck, especially when gambling.
Allspice is added to incense to attract money.
Basil (love, wealth, protection)
Add basil to food, or sprinkle around the house to
attract love. Carry basil in a pouch to attract money and
wealth. Make a wreath of basil tied with red and black ribbon
for protection.
Carnation (strength, healing)
Wear carnation oil to promote physical strength. Add carna-
tion oil to frankincense resin and burn to promote healing.
Frankincense (spirituality)
Burn Frankincense to consecrate ritual space. Anoint candles
to be used on the altar for ritual with frankincense oil.
Galangal (money, lust, protection, psychic
power)
Powdered galangal is sprinkled on the ground to bring good
luck and money. Pieces of galangal are carried to attract
money. Galangal is burned as an incense to increase psychic
powers. The powder is sprinkled under the bed to promote
lustful feelings.
(cid:1)
85(cid:1) The Witch’’’’’s Master Grimoire
Heliotrope (wishes, money, healing)
Wear heliotrope oil to attract money. Burn heliotrope incense
to attract money and make wishes come true.
Orange (divination, love, luck, prosperity)
Mix dried orange peel, rose petals, and lavender buds to
make a love drawing sachet. Anoint forehead with orange oil
before doing divination. Mix orange and allspice oil together
and wear for good luck.
Rosemary (love, lust, healing, protection)
Burn rosemary and Lavender for protection and healing.
Place a sprig of rosemary under your loved one’s pillow so
he or she will dream of you. Anoint green candles with rose-
mary oil to attract love and lust.
(cid:1)86(cid:1)
g
g
(cid:1)
87
(cid:1)
G
LYPH
In Witchcraft and magick, glyph is a term used to
describe a powerful symbol that represents a person, place,
or thing. When the glyph is consecrated, and/or acted upon,
it can ward off psychic attack, illness, and bad luck. Most
glyphs are a combination of an individual’s name and birth
date. These are inscribed upon a piece of parchment with
special ink and corresponding astrological symbols. The glyph
is n worn for protection by the person for whom it was made.
PERSONAL PROTECTION GLYPH
To make the protection glyph, you will first need to work
out your name numerically. Use the chart below to change
the letters in your name into numbers.
Letter-Number Correspondence Chart
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9
A B C D E F G H I
J K L M N O P Q R
S T U V W X Y Z(cid:1) The Witch’’’’’s Master Grimoire
Example: S a n d y L a n e
1 1 5 4 7 3 1 5 5
Add numbers together = 32
Add numbers together to get a single digit: 3+2=5
To make the glyph, you will need a small round metal
disk, a black marking pen, and a pouch to place the disk
in when you are finished. On one side of the disk, write
the single digit for your name. On the other side, inscribe
this symbol:
As you draw the symbol, visualize a protective shield
surrounding you, protecting you from the negative thoughts
of others. Seal the disk by inscribing a pentagram in the
center of the symbol. Place the disk in the pouch and carry
for protection.
G
OLEM
Most magicians are familiar with the legend of the Golem,
a figure made of clay and wood that was brought to life
through a process discovered by Rabbi Yehuda Low. Accord-
ing to Kabbalah, Jewish mysticism, the formula for creating
a Golem was found in the Sefer Yetsirah, a theory of creation
(cid:1)88(cid:1)
g
derived from the first 10 numbers and 22 letters of the
Hebrew alphabet.
In the original rendition, the prophet Jeremiah and his
son Ben Sirah create a Golem in the image of a human being.
The word emeth (truth) is then carved into its forehead,
bringing the Golem to life. Later stories have the Golem
being brought to life by a piece of sacred parchment on which
the name of God has been inscribed.
The size, shape, and characteristics of a Golem are
determined by the individual making it. It is believed that
organic material, such as clay, wood, and bone, produce the
best results. Once assembled, the Golem is ready to be ani-
mated through a process called ritual sculpting, which usu-
ally takes place in a properly consecrated ritual space.
Using a single candle of pure beeswax and a sanctum
regnum incense (made from frankincense, myrrh, and gum
arabic), the Golem is presented at each of the four quad-
rants as the archangels are evoked. During this time, special
incantations are performed to infuse the Golem with the will
and intention of the magician. As the ritual concludes, the
candle is extinguished, and the magician will then spend
several hours visualizing the Golem coming to life, forcing
energy into it. The entire process can take days, even weeks,
to accomplish.
Once the process has been completed, the psyche of the
Golem should be fully animated and ready to do the
magician’s bidding. At first the Golem will be given simple
tasks to do, such as protecting the magician’s personal be-
longings. In time, as the Golem grows and develops, so do
its chores. Rewards come in the form of praise, gifts, and the
psychic energy that is offered by the magician.
The Golem is an extension of the magician’s will and
power, very much like an etheric double. Should the magi-
cian need assistance during a magickal operation, the Golem
(cid:1)
89(cid:1) The Witch’’’’’s Master Grimoire
is there to lend a helping hand. The Golem may sound like
the answer to hired help, but beware: Like most magickal
undertakings, there is another side of the coin to consider.
Once it has been brought to life, the Golem and its creator
are psychically bound together, and as time passes it becomes
increasingly difficult (if not impossible) for one to exist with-
out the other.
G
YPSY
Gypsy is a corruption of the word Egyptian and refers to
Little Egypt, or lesser Egypt. The people who came from
this area on the outskirts of Egypt were highly skilled in natu-
ral magick and were especially gifted in their ability to divine
the future. A cast of turbulent wanderers, the Gypsies trav-
eled through Europe during the Middle Ages.
By the early 16th century, the Gypsies had spread across
Europe. They were extremely clannish, and did not marry
or socialize outside of their blood line. They lived, traveled,
and worked in family groups called cumpanias.
The Gypsies were vagabonds, traveling in ornate horse-
drawn wagons or caravans know as vardos. Living off the
land, the Gypsies subsisted off their magickal and divinatory
talents. Famous for their powerful love potions, protection
charms, and psychic abilities, the Gypsies were often the tar-
gets of Christian persecution. Even though the Gypsies all
but disappeared, their legacy of magick survived. Today,
(cid:1)90(cid:1)
g
through historical and magickal text, it is possible to learn
about the Gypsies’ way of life, and legendary magickal ways.
GYPSY MAGICK
Gypsy Love-Drawing Oil
When the moon turns new, pick a wild rose and sprig of
fresh rosemary. Put the rose and rosemary into a bottle filled
with rose oil and tightly cap. Around the neck of the bottle,
tie a green satin ribbon.
On the night of the full moon, in a place where you can
be alone, hold the bottle so the rays of the moon will shine
directly upon it and chant the following nine times:
Mother of the moon, mother of love,
Descend to me from far above.
With your power this spell I fashion
Infuse this scent with lustful passion.
Anoint your shoulders, breasts, and wrists with the oil.
When your intended is exposed to the scent, he or she will
not be able to resist you.
Gypsy Love Potion
According to Gypsy lore, this is guaranteed to make the
one you desire fall head over heels in love with you. To make
the potion you will need one ripe apple, several rose petals,
and a sweet red wine.
In a white porcelain bowl, crush the apple and rose pet-
als until they are pulp. Drain the juice into a glass or bottle.
Fill a glass with the wine and add the apple-rose mixture to
it. Stir the mixture with the third finger of your left hand
three times. As you do this, speak the words of love you feel
into the mixture.
(cid:1)
91(cid:1) The Witch’’’’’s Master Grimoire
Next, take a new wine glass and inscribe the following
symbol on the bottom of it:
Pour the mixture into the wine glass and serve to the one
you desire. When your desired one drinks the wine, he or
she will fall immediately under your spell.
Gypsy Gold Attraction Pouch
The Gypsies were very fond of ornate pouches and would
endow their contents with great powers. To attract business,
the Gypsy would add magickal items to his or her money
pouch. When the pouch was blessed, it became a powerful
attraction magnet.
On a Friday night as the moon begins to wax, collect the
following items:
(cid:2)
One gold coin.
(cid:2)
Three small acorns.
(cid:2)
One ounce gold dust.
(cid:2)
Three pebbles from a crossroads.
(cid:2)
One small magnet.
(cid:2)
One high john root.
(cid:2)
One ounce marigold petals.
(cid:1)92(cid:1)
g
Place the items you collected in a gold silk pouch. Then,
on a piece of parchment paper inscribe the following sigil:
Put the sigil into the pouch along with the other items.
Hold the pouch in your right hand and speak the following
blessing over it:
Money from here and money from there
To meet my needs with plenty to spare
Treasures that bring security and calm
Gold and green now fill my palm.
Hang the pouch from the mirror in your car or carry in
your purse or briefcase. Once a month, re-bless the pouch
with the words above so it will continue to work for you.
Gypsy Protection Spell
The Gypsies placed great value in the power of cards.
This simple spell was used to protect the family from those
wishing them harm. On the face side of the ace of spades,
the person’s name is written in red ink. On top of this, place
a black candle and three black crow feathers.
At midnight, before the moon turns new, light the black
candle and chant the following:
Let there be no delusion,
You are bound by confusion.
I now send you on your way,
Far from me you shall stay.
(cid:1)
93(cid:1) The Witch’’’’’s Master Grimoire
When the candle has burned out, bind the card with red
and black thread. Take to the nearest crossroads and bury.
The intention is to cause confusion in the victim’s life so he
or she will no longer be a bother to you.
Spell for Wisdom and Truth
This spell will help you find the happiness that comes
from wisdom and truth. On the first Sunday after the new
moon, inscribe a small circle in the earth. In the center of
the circle draw the following symbol:
Place a small gold candle on top of the symbol and
arrange nine apple seeds evenly around it in a circle. Light
the candle and say the following.
Let now wisdom and truth be my guide.
Follow me and bless me all the days of my life.
When the candle has burned out, place the apple seeds
in a small pouch and wear around your neck. Truth and
wisdom will follow.
(cid:1)94(cid:1)
H
H
(cid:1)
95
(cid:1)
H
AIR
Hair represents strength and energy. Early Christians
shaved their heads to show their devotion to the religion. In
some cultures, it is seen as an act of purity to have all body
hair removed before marriage. In the Middle Ages, cutting a
person’s hair had symbolic value judicially and was done to
dishonor the law breaker.
In cultures where magick was practiced, a person’s shorn
hair could signify the actual person and could be used
accordingly. Even hair color was considered. In the Middle
Ages, blonde hair was considered good or heavenly, and red
hair was a sign of evil or Witchcraft.
Modern practitioners of Witchcraft still use hair to link a
person to a spell. It is believed that if you have a person’s
hair, you have a part of them and that what you do with or to
the hair will then affect the person directly. Hair is often
used in healing rituals and binding spells.(cid:1) The Witch’’’’’s Master Grimoire
HAIR MAGICK
Braid That Binds
This spell is intended to bind you to the one you love.
You will need three long strands of hair (about 12 inches)
from your head and from your loved one’s head, a strip of
red ribbon, and a small cherry wood box. Braid the strands
of hair together as you chant:
Let thy thoughts be only of me,
None other shall you ever see.
By braid I bind thee forever,
That I shall lose thee never.
Thou art bound in wake and sleep,
Mine forever thou heart to keep.
Tie the braid off with the red ribbon. Place the braid in
the cherry wood box and keep next to your bed.
Protection Spell
For this protection spell you will need a lock your own
hair, a small white envelope, sealing wax, and a seal with
your initial on it.
Place all the items on your altar or on a small table. Light
the candle, put the lock of hair in the envelope, close, and
seal with the wax and your initial.
Chant the following over the envelope, and then put it
in a safe place.
Sealed within I shall be
That no harm will come to me.
H
ERBS
Herbs provide us with an abundance of medicinal, as
well as magickal substances. Most herbs are easily grown and
(cid:1)96(cid:1)
H
cared for, because in reality they are weeds. Herbs will grow
in the shade, in between rocks, thrive in sandy soil, and can
go for long periods of time without water. Once planted,
herbs return year after year and serve as a useful as well as
decorative ground cover.
Along with their physical and medicinal qualities, herbs
are filled with natural energy and power. Through ritual,
Witches will focus and direct this energy toward a desired
goal. Once magickally charged, the herb will then actively
attract or repel incoming vibrations as designated. Because
of their life force and energy, plants make wonderful psychic
conductors, as well as powerful talismans.
THE URBAN HERB GARDEN
The Window Box
Even the city apartment dweller
has room for herbs. Take clutter off
the kitchen windowsill and replace
it with an attractive planter, filled
with fresh, growing herbs. The following herbs and small
plants are attractive and easy to grow, and are the staples of
most love spells.
Window Box for Love and Attraction
Basil Violets Parsley Rose Tarragon
Cardamom Thyme Rosemary Yarrow Lemon balm
Dill Endive Daisy Dulse Bleeding
heart.
(cid:1)
97(cid:1) The Witch’’’’’s Master Grimoire
The Patio, Balcony, or Porch Planter
Terra cotta strawberry pots are ideal for the
urban gardener. When they are grouped together
in varying sizes, they make an attractive addi-
tion to any balcony or porch. The main portion
of the planter, located in the center, is usually
filled with tall and bushy herbs, and the side pockets usually
hold small or trailing plants. The following herbs and plants
thrive in strawberry pots and make welcome additions to
attraction and prosperity spells.
Window Box for Attraction and Posterity
Marigolds Marjoram Green bean Goldenrod Dill
Fenugreek Woodruff Tomatoes Irish moss Poppy
Alfalfa Cinquefoil Clover Mint
HERB MAGICK
Herb Protection Pouch
Use this spell to protect your property or a loved one
you may feel is in danger.
Items needed. One black candle, one small stone from
a cemetery, black cloth pouch filled with a pinch of
each of the following herbs and plants:
(cid:2)
Vervain
(cid:2)
Wormwood
(cid:2)
Thyme
(cid:2)
Oak bark
(cid:2)
Spanish moss
(cid:1)98(cid:1)
H
On the night of the dark moon go into the woods, and
find a place where four paths cross (crossroads). Stand in
the middle of the cross point of the path, visualize what it is
you want to protect, and then chant the following nine times:
Power of herb, power of wood,
Power of stone, power of good,
Power of earth, power of tree,
From all this evil now be free.
When you have finished with the chant, dig a small hole
and place the pouch in it, and cover with earth. Place the
black candle on top of the spot where you buried the pouch.
Light the candle and repeat the chant nine more times.
Extinguish the candle. Leave the pouch where it is for three
days. At the end of that time return and retrieve the pouch.
Carry the pouch for protection or give it to someone in need.
Herb Love Spell
This spell will give your new romance a kick-start. As the
plant grows, so will the love and affection between you and
the one you desire.
Items needed: One small basil plant, earth, one rose
quartz crystal, and a red flower pot.
Write your name and the name of the one you desire on
the front of the pot. Just before the moon turns full, put the
rose quartz in the bottom of the pot, fill the pot with earth,
and plant the basil in it. As you do this, chant the following:
By earth and stone and Mother Earth
To love and passion now give birth.
Repeat the chant each time you water the plant. As the
plant grows and thrives, so will your lover’s affection for you.
(cid:1)
99(cid:1) The Witch’’’’’s Master Grimoire
All-Purpose Healing Amulet
Items Needed: Green cloth pouch, red cloth paint or
marker, and a pinch of each of the following herbs:
(cid:2)
Garlic
(cid:2)
Eucalyptus
(cid:2)
Cinnamon
(cid:2)
Sage
Lay the pouch on a hard surface and smooth out all the
wrinkles. Using the red cloth paint or marker, draw the fol-
lowing “healing symbol” on the pouch.
When the paint is dry, fill the pouch with the herbs. Hold
the pouch and visualize good health. Carry the pouch with
you during the day, and at night place it under your pillow.
Use the pouch until the affliction goes away.
H
EX
The term hex comes from Early American Folk belief, and
implies the use of magick to hurt or harm another person’s
body, family, or property. The hex was usually cast by a
hex-doctor or sorcerer, who used deep concentration and sym-
bolic imaginary to affect his or her target. Although the hex is
considered to be an evil curse or black magick, the process of
hexing can be used in a positive manner to bring about good
luck, heal the sick, and conjure up good fortune.
(cid:1)100(cid:1)
H
A good example of using the hex process to bring about
favorable results still thrives in this country. The Pennsylva-
nia Dutch have been using a form of hex-craft for centuries
to protect their property, heal the sick, and maintain a mea-
sure of personal peace and harmony. To the modern city
dweller, Pennsylvania Dutch hex-craft may seem a bit odd.
But to early Germanic people, magick was tantamount to
survival. The early pioneers of this country did not have it
easy. If they did not maintain a strict vigilance over loved
ones and make the best of what Mother Nature had to offer,
they never would have endured.
The most noticeable aspects of the Pennsylvania Dutch
magickal system are the elaborate symbols, or hex signs, that
they use to decorate their barns, homes, and village stores.
These colorful signs represent hundreds of years of tradi-
tion and come in many patterns and sizes. Similar to a
Voodoo veves, hex signs are combinations of natural sym-
bols that convey specific intentions. They are used to pro-
tect property, attract love, bring good fortune, and enlist the
aid of the four elements for agricultural purposes.
The annual cycle pro- The sign of strength and
tected by the circle and courage. The double
the eight-rayed star, sym- eagle denotes watchful-
bol of life and balance. ness and the tulips rep-
resent fertility.
(cid:1)
101(cid:1) The Witch’’’’’s Master Grimoire
How To Make A Hex Sign
Be sure you have all the tools you will need to complete
the sign you have designed or found. If you are doing an
original drawing, plan it out first on a blank piece of paper.
Be sure that the picture will represent the result you desire.
On a round disk of wood or metal, draw out the hex sign. As
you draw, ask a blessing. For example: “This is the universe
that surrounds me. It is blessed with the universal power of
the almighty forces of creation.”
After the initial drawing is completed, paint the sign with
colors selected for their symbolic harmony with the aims of
the sign. For example, a design featuring a rooster, repre-
senting watchfulness and spiritual vigilance, might be
painted red and white for power and protection.
Once the hex sign has been painted, it should be blessed
and consecrated to the purpose for which it was made. This
is done by holding your hands over the sign and charging it
with personal energy and power. If the hex sign is for protec-
tion, you will want to recite a simple chant or prayer that will
convey your thoughts verbally as you focus on the sign. For
example: if the hex sign was made for protection, you might
want to say:
Powers of the present and the past
There is none beside thee.
Be now a guard, remain steadfast
In perfect love and purity.
As soon as the sign has been blessed, you will want to
hang it outside of the house in a place for all to see. If the
sign is for protection, you might want to place it over or next
to a bedroom window. If the sign is for love, hang it over the
kitchen door or window. If the sign is for prosperity, fertility,
and good fortune, hang it over the front entrance of your
home.
(cid:1)102(cid:1)
I
I
(cid:1)
103
(cid:1)
I
CE
Given that water is symbolic of potential, swift movement,
and the ability to nurture, it only stands to reason that ice be
given symbolic jurisdiction as well. Water flows, promotes
growth, responds to our needs, and is one of the four ele-
ments required for survival. With magick, water is used to
attract love, encourage healing, and advance transition. Ice,
on the other hand represents the stultification of develop-
ment and impedes progress. Magickally ice is used to slow
things down, impede, or otherwise stop forward motion.
ICE MAGICK
A Spell to Freeze Your Enemy
Use this spell to stop or impede an adversary or irritat-
ing person who will not take no for an answer.
Items needed: One small opaque container, a bottle of
Tabasco sauce, and a picture of or handwriting from
the person you want to stop.
Place the picture or handwriting in the bottom of the
container. Sprinkle some of the Tabasco sauce over it and(cid:1) The Witch’’’’’s Master Grimoire
then fill the container with water. As you place the container
in the freezer, say the following with great emphasis:
Fiery hot, and then frozen cold,
Your powers are now put on hold.
Sand and Ice Love Spell
If you feel the one you love is not responding as he or
she should, use this spell to get things going. You will need
a flat container of finely grained sand (please do not use cat
litter). Several hours before you plan to perform this spell,
freeze a fresh red rose in a container filled with water.
Begin this spell by writing your lover’s name in the sand
and then draw the following symbols around it:
Take the iced rose and place it in the center of the sand,
so that it covers your lover’s name. As the ice melts, so will
your lover’s heart. Keep the rose next to your bed as a
symbol of eternal love.
I
NCENSE
Incense, like music, speaks without words to the con-
scious mind. It stirs the emotions as it brings back memo-
ries of things, events, places, and people long since forgotten.
Because of its evocative nature, incense has always played an
important role in both religion and magick.
Priests and magicians have long believed that the burn-
ing of incense will attract higher spiritual forces. It is
believed that incense has the ability to deliver directly to the
(cid:1)104(cid:1)
I
realm of the gods those prayers and wishes spoken into its
smoke. These prayers are then blessed and their petitioners’
wishes granted.
Essentially, incense can be made from any substance as
long as it smells good when burned. Some of the more tradi-
tional ingredients used are clove, cinnamon, sandalwood,
and resins like frankincense and myrrh. The reason these
aromatic substances smell so good is that their essential oils
are released when they are heated, emitting a perfumed
Allspice Berries (spicy) Use for money, luck, and healing.
Bay Leaves (mellow) Use for protection and
purification.
Cassia Bark Use for love, protection, psychic
(cinnamon like) power.
Cloves (warm-spicy) Use for love, protection, and
money.
Deer’s Tongue Leaves Use for lust and psychic power.
(sweet-woodsy)
Eucalyptus (like camphor) Use for healing and protection.
Lavender Flowers (flowery) Use for love, protection, and
happiness.
Myrtle Leaves Use for love, fertility, and money.
(like eucalyptus)
Orris Root (violet like) Use for love, lust, and attraction.
Patchouli Leaves (musky) Use for love, money, and fertility.
Rosemary (heady-medicinal) Use for love, lust ,and protection.
Sandalwood Use for protection, wishes, and
(rich-mysterious) spirituality.
Star Anise (spicy) Use for psychic power and luck.
Tonka Beans (like vanilla) Use for love, luck, and attraction.
(cid:1)
105(cid:1) The Witch’’’’’s Master Grimoire
smoke. The fragrant oils contained in the following herbs,
spices, and woods make them a source of natural incense that
can be burned alone or in combination with other substances.
Generally, incense comes in two forms: combustible,
which is in the form of cones, sticks, and blocks, and non-
combustible, which in the form of powder or resin. The sim-
plest kind of incense to make is the noncombustible kind, as
it does not require mucilage or an ignitable substance. Also,
noncombustible incense is far less messy and frustrating to
deal with.
The base for noncombustible incense is generally
talcum powder and/or sawdust and/or powdered spice. Salt-
peter is added to make the incense burn. A powerful essen-
tial oil is then added for fragrance along with a dye for color.
The incense is then burned in a censer on small church char-
coal blocks.
To create your own magickal incenses, begin with a base
(talcum, sawdust, or a special spice blend). To the base, add
the appropriate herbs or resins. Grind the mixture into a
powder, and then add a few drops of perfume or essential oil.
Mix well to blend oil and powder together. Place the incense
in a jar with a tightly fitting lid and then label accordingly.
The following formulas are for noncombustible incense.
You will need a grinder, a small mixing bowl, an eye dropper,
measuring spoons, and jars with lids. Grind all of the herbal
ingredients into a fine powder, add the oil and mix thor-
oughly. Store in glass jars or plastic bags.
Try to time your incense making with the appropriate
moon cycle. For love and attraction use the new to full moon,
for personal or psychic power use the full moon, and for
protection or banishing use the waning moon.
Before you begin to make any magickal substance, take a
few moments to think about what you are doing and why. As
you blend the ingredients together, firmly instill your intent
(cid:1)106(cid:1)
I
into the mixture. Visualize your desire, audibly chant or speak
this desire as you work, forcing it into the very essence of the
incense. This extra effort of focused energy will enhance the
incense, and the magickal work it is intended for.
MAGICKAL INCENSE RECIPES
Love-Drawing Incense Protection Incense
1 part sandalwood base 2 parts talcum base
1 part lavender buds 2 parts patchouli
1/2 tsp. basil 2 parts sandalwood
1/2 part orris root powder 3 drops patchouli oil
3 drops rose oil 3 drops sandalwood oil
1 drop lavender oil 3 drops sage oil
* color red or pink * color black
Money-Drawing Full Moon Incense
Incense 2 parts orris root powder
2 parts lavender buds
2 parts talcum base
2 parts myrrh powder
1 part cassia chips
2 parts calamus
1 part crushed allspice
3 drops jasmine oil
1 part frankincense
3 drops rose oil
1 part marigold petals
3 drops gardenia oil
3 drops frankincense oil
2 drops clove oil *Color comes from powdered
paint
* color green
(cid:1)
107(cid:1) The Witch’’’’’s Master Grimoire
J
(cid:1)108
(cid:1)
J
EWELS
Magickally, jewels and gems are associated with spiritual
truths due to their innate talismanic attributes. Like all natu-
ral substances, gemstones contain an energy or life force of
their own. The color, shape, and size of the stone are what
determine its magickal value. For example, because of its red
color and association with fire and the planet Mars, the ruby
projects energy, strength, and power. Therefore, it would make
a wonderful talisman to lift the spirits of someone with low
self-esteem.
PROPERTIES OF JEWELS AND GEM STONES
Amber: Not exactly a gem stone, but still highly prized among
Witches and magicians. Amber is a fossilized resin that was
favored among the ancients for its rich, golden, honey color.
Amber represents the congealed rays of the setting sun and
is worn for strength, protection, beauty, and love.
Amethyst: A vibrant purple quartz, considered to be very spiri-
tual in nature. Amethyst has been valued for thousands of
years as an instrument of magick. It will help clear confusion,
aid in prophetic dreams, and protect against self-deception.(cid:1)
J
With no negative qualities, amethyst is very calming and
spiritually uplifting.
Aquamarine: Sometimes called “sea water,” it belongs to the
goddess of the ocean. It is a pale blue-green color and is
carried to enhance psychic power. The stone is also used for
healing, purification, and to bring love and happiness.
Carnelian: A warm, red-orange in color, smooth to the touch.
The stone is carried for courage and to curb jealousy and
envy. It is also believed that the carnelian will prevent certain
skin diseases which has made it popular with healer. Carne-
lian can also be used for courage and sexual energy.
Crystal Quartz: Considered to be a master stone of power. It
is associated with both fire (because of its ability to focus the
sun’s rays to ignite combustible material), and with water
(because it looks like ice). Witches wear crystals to represent
the Goddess, the moon, and psychic power. Crystals can be
used to decorate magickal tools, create protection barriers,
and to focus and direct personal power.
Diamond: A highly prized gem of great clarity and brilliance.
Diamonds are associated with the sun, the element of fire,
and the ability to resonate energy. They are exceptionally hard,
resilient, and of course, expensive. Shamans have been known
to use diamonds to help them alter their states of conscious-
ness in order to reach higher states of spiritual awareness.
The diamond can be worn or carried for protection, cour-
age, wealth, peace, sexual energy, spiritual enlightenment,
health, and strength.
Emerald: This brilliant dark green stone is one of the most
expensive on the market. It is associated with the goddess
Venus and the element of earth. The emerald is used in spells
that promote monetary gain, encourage love, and help
increase mental powers.
(cid:1)
109(cid:1) The Witch’’’’’s Master Grimoire
Garnet: A bright red, fiery gem of incredible depth, worn to
bestow faithfulness and to renew friendship. The garnet is
associated with Mars and the ability to protect. It has been
known to enhance bodily strength and virility. Use the gar-
net for protection, healing, strength, friendship, and love.
Jade: Considered a sacred stone in China, where it is placed
on altars to the sun and moon. Jade is also associated with
Venus and worn to attract love and marriage. Jade is green in
color and can be used for love, healing, longevity, wisdom,
and to prolong life.
Jet: Again, this is not a stone but rather fossilized wood,
millions of years old. Black as midnight, jet beads are often
combined with amber beads and used for protection, psy-
chic power, good luck, and health.
Lapis Lazuli: Prized by the ancient Egyptians for its royal
blue color and flecks of golden pyrite. It is associated with the
goddesses Isis, Venus, and Ishtar. Lapis brings joy, love, friend-
ship, and courage and helps to protect against infidelity.
Moonstone: An opalescent blue or white feldspar. The moon-
stone is associated with the Goddess and lunar power. It is
worn or carried for love, divination, protection, youth, and
healing. Most Witches prize the moonstone above all others
because of its connection to the Goddess.
Opal: A very unique gem that contains all the colors of the
rainbow. The opal can be used for almost any purpose
because of its color range. Ancient myths tell of opals being
wrapped in bay leaves and carried to promote invisibility.
Opals are used to aid with astral projection, to attract good
luck, money, and health, and to convey beauty and power.
(cid:1)110(cid:1)
J
Rhodochrosite: A beautiful pink stone that gives off a loving
and warm vibration. Rhodochrosite is worn to enhance
beauty, to build friendships, and to attract love. It can also
be used to reduce stress and fatigue.
Ruby: Long considered the stone of Buddha; varies in color
from pink to dark red. The ruby is associated with Mars and
the element of fire and is highly prized for its clear color.
Rubies are worn or carried for protection, personal power,
joy, attraction, wealth, and spirituality.
Sapphire: Considered by magicians to be a very powerful
and spiritual stone. It is associated with the god Apollo and
is usually worn to stimulate the third eye. The sapphire will
attract love, bring visions during meditation, and enhance
spiritual activity.
Topaz: Associated with the sun, fire, and the Egyptian god
Ra. The yellow topaz is used for protection, healing, or
attracting money and great wealth. The blue topaz height-
ens spiritual awareness and brings peace, harmony, and love.
Turquoise: Highly prized by many North American Indian
tribes for its beauty and healing qualities. Its blue-green color
is associated with the goddess Venus, the element of earth
and the Great Spirit. Turquoise is used for healing, courage,
money, protection, and friendship, and is said to bring the
wearer good fortune.
JEWEL AND GEM MAGICK
A Spell for Confidence and Courage
Use this spell whenever you need for self-confidence,
self-esteem, or the courage to handle a difficult situation.
(cid:1)
111(cid:1) The Witch’’’’’s Master Grimoire
Items needed: One opal pendant and one red candle.
Relax and let go of your fears and tensions. Take several
deep breaths and then light the candle. Pick up the opal
pendant, hold it in your hands, and feel the power that ema-
nates from within its shimmering depths—where all the
colors of the rainbow converge. Take several more deep
breaths, feel the power of the opal flow into your hands, and
circulate through your entire body. Visualize renewed
strength and courage. Hold the opal close to the flame of
the candle, as you chant:
Cosmic forces, above and below,
Come to my aid and help me to know.
To find, to seek, to look within,
To overcome insecurities that creep in.
I ask thee now to enter my dreams
And fulfill my desires for self-esteem.
May I now have courage in all that I do.
Let my personal power now shine through.
Focus all your attention on the opal and the candle flame.
Repeat the chant two more times. As you do this, feel your
personal power grow and strengthen. Visualize yourself as a
courageous and determined person. When you feel the time
is right, extinguish the candle and wear the opal pendant.
You may also use amethyst, diamond, and lapis for courage,
strength, and power.
(cid:1)112(cid:1)
K
K
(cid:1)
113
(cid:1)
K
EY
The key is symbolic of the power to open and the power
to lock. This concept is displayed in the symbol of the dove
and the key, signifying the spirit that opens the gates of
heaven. In Roman mythology, Janus, the god of doors and
new beginnings, was generally represented by a doorkeeper’s
staff and key. The goddess Hecate was the keeper of the key
that unlocked the door to the underworld, which opened
the way to the mysteries and secrets of knowledge found in
the afterlife.
In symbolic language, a key often signifies initiation and
the knowledge the owner of the key will soon possess. The
color of the key is important as well. The silver key repre-
sents psychological understanding, the gold key signifies
philosophical wisdom, and the key made of diamond
confers the power to act.(cid:1) The Witch’’’’’s Master Grimoire
To find a key signifies the stage prior to the actual dis-
covery of the treasure, found only after great difficulties.
There is also a relationship between the key and the Egyp-
tian ankh (sign of eternal life). We often see engravings of
Egyptian gods and goddesses holding the ankh by the top
as if it were a key, especially in ceremonies concerning the
dead. As an archetypal symbol, the key represents the knowl-
edge or ability to open up the gates of death to immortality.
K
NOT
The knot is a symbol of linking, bonding, or the connec-
tion to protective powers. The Egyptians used the knot to
symbolize life and immortality. The Isis knot, which resembles
an ankh with its arms at its sides, was widely used as an
amulet of binding and releasing. It represented the ability to
hold the power of magick until it was ready to be released.
In magick and Witchcraft, the knot is used in conjunc-
tion with the Law of Mimicry and the Law of Similarity some-
times referred to as homeopathic or imitative magick. These
laws basically state that like produces like, or that an effect
may resemble its cause. Simply put, whatever you do to the
symbolic representation of a person, place or thing (such as
a Voodoo doll), will directly affect that same person, place,
or thing.
It is believed that to conjure up a good etheric intelli-
gence during a healing or protection ritual, and then to knot
a cord around the image of the subject being treated, will
keep the etheric world helper close to the subject for protec-
tion. This same principle is used in knot magick to bind an
energy or force to an individual in need, or when untied to
release the individual from an affliction or situation.
(cid:1)114(cid:1)
K
KNOT MAGICK
Knot magick, sometimes referred to as cord magick,
relies mainly on the powers of concentration and visualiza-
tion. The cord and tying of the knots are points of focus that
will link the thought-form to the individual or situation
and bind it, or hold it in position. This type of magick is
used to stop a person from harming him or herself or
another, to stop a situation until it can be dealt with on the
material plane; or to bind two people together for the pur-
pose of love and marriage. As with all of magick, the instru-
ment of the act is neutral, leaving the ramifications or outcome
the responsibility of the individual performing the work.
Knots of Love Binding Spell
This spell is best used when two people are already in
love. I don’t recommend this spell to bind people against
their will, especially in the case of a separation or divorce.
Items needed: One 9” length of red cord, photographs
of you and the one you desire, two red candles, and
a red cloth pouch large enough to hold the bound
pictures.
Place all the items on your altar. Take several deep
breaths, pick up the picture of your loved one, and look
directly at it. Visualize the person in the picture being atten-
tive and loving. Light one candle and say:
With flame and fire
I create desire.
As this spell I fashion
I do bring forth passion.
Take several deep breaths, light the other candle,
and repeat:
(cid:1)
115(cid:1) The Witch’’’’’s Master Grimoire
With flame and fire
I create desire.
As this spell I fashion
I do bring forth passion.
Take the pictures and place them face to face. Hold them
close to your heart and visualize the romance, feel the pas-
sion between you and the other person. Place the pictures
between the two candles. Pick up the cord and tie seven
evenly spaced knots in it. With each knot you tie, chant:
By the power of earth and heaven
Turn to me, turn to me by seven.
Pick up the pictures, being sure to keep them face to
face, and bind them together with the cord. As you do this,
chant with great emotion:
With knot and cord your love and mine
Heart to heart I firmly bind.
Place the bound pictures back on the altar between the
candles. When the candles have completely burned out, lov-
ingly place the bound pictures in the red pouch. Keep the
pouch with you during the day and place it under your
pillow at night.
Protection Binding Spell
If you feel that a specific person is out to do you or oth-
ers harm, this simple spell should stop them in their tracks.
Items needed: Photograph of the person to be bound,
one black candle, one 9” piece of black cord, and a
box filled with dirt.
On the night of the waning moon, collect all the required
items. Place them on your altar. At the stroke of midnight
begin the spell.
(cid:1)116(cid:1)
K
Light the candle and visualize the subject of your spell
as you chant:
Black as night and this dark hour
I have the right, I have the power.
Pick up the black cord and tie nine evenly spaced knots
in it as you chant:
I bind thee from doing harm,
Your evil now I disarm.
Bound by knot and cord you remain
Until from harm you shall refrain.
Tie the knotted cord around the photo. Place the bound
picture in the box and cover it with the dirt. Extinguish the
black candle. Bury the box in a safe place. When the indi-
vidual whose image is resting in the box stops hurting you
and others, you may safely take them out of the box and
unbind them.
(cid:1)
117(cid:1) The Witch’’’’’s Master Grimoire
L
(cid:1)118
(cid:1)
L
AMP
The lamp and the lantern are symbolic representations of
life, the light of divinity, immortality, the intellect, guidance,
and transitions in life. The striking or extinguishing of a lamp
signifies the birth or death of someone. Since the lamp brings
light to darkness it corresponds to truth and wisdom.
The pottery or earthenware lamp is a symbol of human-
ity. The oil in the lamp contains the energy to power the
lamp. When it is lighted, the spirit of the lamp is born in the
flame. Lamps appear in myths and legends and even have a
place in divination. The ninth enigma of the Tarot is the
hermit, holding his lantern aloft to help guide the fool upon
his journey. The promise of the light restores self-confidence
and helps maintain good judgment.(cid:1)
L
LAMP MAGICK
The lamp has four distinct parts. The base of the lamp
corresponds to the element of earth and is the foundation
upon which you will structure your magickal work. The globe
represents the element of air and is a reflection of your
intention. The wick that burns becomes the element of fire
and is a symbol of your energy, motivation, and power. The
oil is equivalent to the element of water and the fluid that
sustains your motivation.
The first step in lamp magick is to paint or decorate the
lamp base with colors and symbols that reflect your desire.
For example, if you were doing a love-drawing spell you might
want to paint the base red, with pink and white hearts and
then add a heart patterned ribbon.
The globe is the ideal vehicle for magickal expression.
Using glass paint, write the name of the one you desire in
red paint and your name in pink. Fill in the empty spaces
with hearts and flowers. The oil is what empowers or gives
life to the wick; it is the source of energy and power that will
manifest your desire. For love, you could mix a few drops of
rose oil in with red lamp oil to reinforce your intention.
Lamp Oil Colors
Red Love, passion, desire, strength, and courage
Yellow Communication, attraction, persuasion
Green Money, luck, health, goals, love, marriage
Blue Creativity, peace, wisdom, psychic ability
Purple Power, ambition
Clear Universal, can be used for all general works
(cid:1)
119(cid:1) The Witch’’’’’s Master Grimoire
A Spell to Rekindle a Friendship
Items needed: Oil lamp with a gold colored or brass
base, yellow lamp oil, lemon oil, yellow ribbon, yellow
glass paint.
On the bottom of the lamp, write your friend’s name
and your name and draw the following sigil:
Fill the lamp with yellow lamp oil, add three drops of lemon
oil, and allow several hours for the wick to absorb the oil.
Paint several large yellow sunflowers on the globe, and
then tie the yellow ribbon around the base of the lamp. Chant
the following as you light the lamp:
This flame shall shine by day and night
You will look up and see its light.
To guide you back into my life
And forever banish all anger and strife.
Allow the lamp to burn for three hours. During this time,
call your friend and make arrangements for him or her to
join you for dinner. One hour before your friend is sched-
uled to arrive, light the lamp and repeat the chant. Place the
lamp in the room where you plan to spend the evening.
L
OVE
Since the beginning of time, men and women have
sought each other out, spending endless hours searching
(cid:1)120(cid:1)
L
for ways to win each other’s favor, only to discover their love
is not being reciprocated. As most of us know, this can be a
painful and disappointing experience, one that usually leads
us to the door of our local psychic or Witch. Hopefully, the
magick this individual will conjure up will help us win the
love of the one we desire.
LOVE MAGICK
Warning: Love spells work well to get someone’s atten-
tion or to give a relationship a chance, but it is unwise
to use them to try to hold people against their will. When
this is done, the only thing keeping the person with you
is the energy of the spell. The first time you forget or
aren’t able to do the spell, the binding energy is gone
and the relationship will wither and die.
The Love Box
Items needed: Small, heart shaped box, love-drawing
incense, love-drawing oil, pink candle, parchment
paper, pen, rose quartz, some of your own hair, orris
root powder, charcoal, and matches.
Perform this spell on the first Friday after the moon turns
new. To prepare, center and ground yourself. Light the char-
coal. Inscribe upon the parchment that which you specifi-
cally desire in a lover. Place some love-drawing incense upon
the coals. Dress the pink candle with love drawing oil. While
saying:
May the gods of love hear my plea
And bring everlasting love to me!
(cid:1)
121(cid:1) The Witch’’’’’s Master Grimoire
Light the candle and read your petition aloud, then place
the candle on top of the parchment paper. Place more
incense upon the coals. Meditate upon your wish, and when
finished, read the following:
Hail to thee goddess of love
Shine down on me from above,
Bring now a lover to me
As I will so it shall be.
Let all items remain as they are until the candle has com-
pletely burned out. Place the parchment paper in the
bottom of the box. On top of the paper drip seven drops of
the love-drawing oil. Next place your hair, the rose quartz,
some of the orris root powder, and the candle drippings into
the box. The box should then be placed where it will be most
effective (that is to say, where you will likely come in contact
with the person upon whom the spell is cast).
A Smoke and Fire Love Spell
Items needed: One sheet of white parchment paper,
love drawing incense (mix together 2 tbsp. each of
sandalwood, lavender buds, orris root powder. To the
powdered mixture add six drops rose oil and one drop
cherry oil), church charcoal and censer, one red and
one green candle, basic altar tools.
Try to time this spell with the turning of the moon from
new to full.
Before doing the ritual, draw the following symbols on
the parchment paper. Place the paper on your altar and set
the green candle on the Venus symbol and the red candle on
the Mars symbol.
(cid:1)122(cid:1)
L
Venus Mars
Begin the ritual by casting the magick circle. Then light
the green (Venus) candle as you say:
Lady of love, I appeal to thee.
Light the red (Mars) candle as you say:
Lord of lust, bring him [her] to me.
Light the charcoal. When the coal begins to glow, sprinkle
the love-drawing incense on it. Stare into the smoke, visual-
ize the one you desire, and chant the following three times
in your most sultry, sexy voice:
The gods of love mine eyes dost kiss
And rise into ether, gather in mist
Then return to Earth, and my love impart
A passion so great as to inflame his [her] heart.
The incense smoke will carry the message to the one you
desire, imbuing them with love and desire only for you.
Ancient Gypsy Love Spell
This spell is considered by most Gypsies to be very
potent. Timing is the most important ingredient of this spell.
Step One: Cut a blade of grass 7” long at midnight during
the full moon.
Step Two: Before the clock strikes 1 a.m., you must hold the
blade of grass in your mouth, face the East, and say:
(cid:1)
123(cid:1) The Witch’’’’’s Master Grimoire
Before the sun shall rise,
[Insert name] shall here my call.
Before the sun shall set,
[Insert name] for me shall fall.
Step Three: turn to the West and repeat the chant.
Step Four: Cut the grass into small pieces
Step Five: Invite your loved one for dinner. Mix the grass in
with his or her food and he or she will fall madly in love
with you.
Seven Day Love Spell
Items needed: One red candle at least 8” long, seven
pieces of paper measuring 3” x 1”, one pen, one knife.
Write the name of the one you desire on each
piece of paper. Fold each piece lengthwise twice, so
that you have seven pieces of paper 3” long and
about 1/4” wide. Using the knife, cut six equally
spaced notches into the red candle.
Begin this spell seven days before the full moon.
Take one of the pieces of folded paper and light
one end with a match. Light the candle with the flame from
the burning paper. Allow the paper to burn up completely
in the candle’s flame. As you do this, chant:
By the powers of earth and heaven,
[Insert name] turn to me, turn to me, by seven.
Allow the candle to burn down to the first notch. Repeat
the spell each day until the full moon. On the night of the
full moon, light the paper, and the candle from the paper, as
before, only this time, chant the following:
(cid:1)124(cid:1)
L
O lovely lady of the moon,
Grant to me this special boon.
That the one I love shall love only me,
This is what I seek, So Mote It Be.
Stay with the candle until it burns out. The one you love
will only have eyes for you.
(cid:1)
125(cid:1) The Witch’’’’’s Master Grimoire
M
(cid:1)126
(cid:1)
M (M )
ANDRAKE ANDRAGORA
Shaped like a human being, the mandrake (mandragora)
is a plant that has long been associated with Witchcraft. It is
highly toxic and produces a narcotic effect when ingested
internally—something I do not recommend! The important
thing when selecting a mandrake is to find one in the shape
of the opposite sex of the person on whom you wish to cast
the spell, and then to immediately carve the root into a
human form.
There are two genera of plants that are traditionally clas-
sified as mandragora: the mandragora officinalis, a member
of the tomato family (which includes deadly nightshade and
devil’s apple) and the English white bryony (bryonia dioica),(cid:1)
M
which is related to the cucumber and gourd. Both can be
used in spells calling for mandrake, but they should be used
with great caution, as they are extremely poisonous.
Legend speaks of gathering the mandrake on the night
of the full moon as close to the Vernal Equinox as possible.
The plant should be carefully extracted from the earth. A
small section of the mandrake is clipped away and replanted
in the spot from where it was taken. The mandrake is then
gently carved into human shape and replanted in either a
church yard or at the spot where two paths cross (crossroads).
Each night for one lunar month, the mandrake is watered
with a combination of distilled water, milk, and a drop of
your blood.
When the lunar month has ended, remove the mandrake
from the ground. If you’ve cared for it properly, the
mandrake’s skin will have completely healed over and taken
on human form. To complete the process, you will need to
dry the mandrake. This can be done by placing it on a bed
of vervain leaves in a warm oven or by passing it through the
incense smoke of burning vervain leaves. (Note that the
latter method will take months to complete, as the root dries
very slowly.) Clothe the mandrake in unbleached muslin and
keep near the hearth or in the room you use most frequently.
It will serve to bring you health, wealth, and happiness.
M
ETAL
Ever since Vulcan, son of Jupiter, created thunderbolts
in his underground forge, the power of metal magick as been
a closely guarded secret. In Western alchemy it was believed
that the metals found on earth were influenced by their cor-
responding planetary rulers. Each metal was then named
after a planet, imbued with the planet’s attributes, and
incorporated into daily life through the days of the week. By
(cid:1)
127(cid:1) The Witch’’’’’s Master Grimoire
using the corresponding metal, one was supposed to be able
to control the forces that prevailed each day.
PLANETARY QUALITIES OF METALS
Gold: The metal of the sun, gold governs Sunday and is asso-
ciated with strength, power, success, achievement, wealth, and
masculine energy.
Silver: The metal of the moon, silver governs Monday and
is associated with the feminine mystique, intuition, instinc-
tive wisdom, spiritual and psychic understanding, fertility,
and magick.
Iron: The metal of Mars, iron governs Tuesday and is asso-
ciated with war and aggression. It also stands against injus-
tice and exudes masculine force and power.
Mercury: The metal of Mercury, it governs Wednesday and
is associated with communication, business, selling oneself
and being heard. It holds the power of influence.
Tin: The metal of Jupiter, tin governs Thursday and is asso-
ciated with wisdom, idealism, expansion, and ambition. It is
good for legal problems and career, and is a masculine force.
Copper: The metal of Venus, it governs Friday and matters
of the heart, love, emotions, lust, sex, and fertility. It is good
for relationships and health and is a totally feminine force.
Lead: The metal of Saturn, lead governs Saturday and is
associated with change, transition, formation through restric-
tion, and learning through trial and error. It is considered to
be related to the first law of Karma: limitation.
METAL MAGICK
Gold Money Magick
Items needed: Gold filings or nuggets, small dish, sun-
flower petals, and 10 coins.
(cid:1)128(cid:1)
M
Place the dish in the sunlight. Focus your attention on
the dish. Visualize the dish filling with money, cascading
over the edge like a waterfall of gold. See in your mind’s eye
gold, coins, and money filling the room where the dish is.
Each day place a new coin in the dish. In time you will begin
to generate money-making ideas. Each time you place a coin
in the dish, your will to create wealth will increase and so will
your success and prosperity.
The Copper Love Charm
Items needed: Seven copper pennies, one copper
bracelet, one green candle, and a green velvet pouch.
Begin on the night of the new moon. Place all the items
called for on your altar. Cast the magick circle, and light the
green candle as you say:
Power of Venus on this night
Work my will by candlelight
Bring to me the one I see
As I will So Mote It Be.
Place the copper bracelet in the green pouch. Take one
copper penny, kiss it, and say the following:
Bright and shining one of love,
Descend to me from above.
Attend to me and work my will,
With great passion my love fulfill.
By my side forever strong,
For this is what I crave and long.
Put the penny in the pouch along with the bracelet. Lay
the pouch next to the candle. Allow the candle to burn for
one hour. Extinguish the candle and cut a door in your circle,
but do not take it up or disturb the altar arrangement. Re-
peat the spell for six consecutive nights. On the last night
(cid:1)
129(cid:1) The Witch’’’’’s Master Grimoire
allow the candle to burn out. Fashion a heart from the left-
over wax and push all the pennies into it. Put the heart in a
safe place. The following day present your loved one with
the bracelet, and he or she will be yours forever.
Iron Protection Ritual
Items needed: Eight pieces of iron or iron nails, one
black candle, a dish of salt, and protection incense.
Place the candle on the floor near your front door.
Encircle the candle with the iron pieces and then with a ring
of salt. Place the dish of salt on the outside of the circle to
the west of the candle. Light the incense and walk around
your house with it as you say:
Let that which is unwanted be gone,
Never to return from this moment on.
Return to the circle and light the black candle as you
say:
Into the flame, into the fire
Burns all that I do not desire.
To be purified by earth and salt
Evil energies now halt.
Allow the candle and incense to burn out. Sprinkle the
pieces of iron or nails around the outside perimeter of your
home or apartment.
(cid:1)130(cid:1)
M
M
IRROR
The mirror signifies truth, self-knowledge, wisdom, and
the soul. It is considered to be a reflection of the supernatu-
ral or divine intelligence behind creativity. The mirror also
symbolizes the moon, due to its ability to reflect light.
Magickally, the mirror can be used to divine the future,
create protective devices, and look into your own nature.
The art of divining the future by gazing into a mirror
appears throughout the history of western mysticism. A devo-
tee of the goddess Demeter gazed into a sacred spring and
predicted the harvest. It is believed that Catherine de Medici,
a reputed Witch, depended on mirror divination to guide
her through the tangled affairs of state in 16th century France.
Directions for divining the future can be found in the
Grimorium Verum, published in 1517.
MIRROR MAGICK
Mirror Gazing
The most versatile mirror for augury is full length, has
three panels, and provides a view of three sides of an image
at once. When this triple reflective quality is combined with
candlelight, it creates a very mystical effect.
A full moon night is advised for scrying. Stand the
mirror in the corner of a darkened room and place a lighted
candle before each panel. Position a chair facing the center
panel. Sit in the chair, take several deep breaths, and relax.
Stare fixedly at the reflected image of the center candle flame,
pose your question, and look deep into the mirror. The
mirror will begin to cloud or fog with a swirling veil of ethe-
real mist. Through the mist, an image will appear and an-
swer your query. When the image begins to fade, so will the
(cid:1)
131(cid:1) The Witch’’’’’s Master Grimoire
mist. Once the mirror is clear, extinguish the candles, cover
the mirror with a dark blue or black velvet drape, and record
the message in your book of shadows.
The Mirror Box
There comes a time in everyone’s life when protection is
needed from outside negative forces. This is especially true
for those involved in Witchcraft and the magickal arts. For
some reason, it seems to be the delight of neophyte Witches
to psychically attack their peers solely for the sheer delight
of doing it. In such cases, where ignorance is the motive, the
offending individual warrants some time in the mirror box.
The mirror box is a reflective tool for turning one’s own
spitefulness against others. There is no need to thrust pins
in a doll, invoke the demons of hell, or call upon the grim
reaper. A simple returning of negativity will suffice. Use com-
mon sense and think before you act. This doesn’t mean you
must turn the other cheek, or become a living martyr, but
rather be reasonable and don’t join your rivals in the gutter.
How To Make The Mirror Box
Items needed: One medium sized box with a lid,
black construction paper or paint, six mirror tiles,
one black candle, sandalwood oil, and a photo-
graph of or handwriting sample from the person
to be placed in the box.
Paper or paint the outside of the box black. Cut the mirror
tiles to fit the inside of the box’s lid, sides, and bottom.
Glue them in place with the reflective sides facing inward
so when you look into the box you are able to see your
reflection.
(cid:1)132(cid:1)
M
Begin this spell on a Thursday night just before the moon
turns new. Place the box on a table facing the direction where
your enemy lives. Dress the candle with sandalwood oil as
you chant:
It is not to hate or burn,
Just your evil to return.
Place the candle on top of the box and lean the photo-
graph or handwriting against it. Light the candle. Focus your
attention on the photograph to create a mental link with the
person and chant:
All that is evil and sent to me
Is reflected back and returned to thee.
This magickal box shall hold you tight
As your evilness turns against you this night.
All that you have sent to me
Shall now be returned by law of three.
Lift the candle off the box, being careful not to extin-
guish it. Open the box and place the picture inside. Close
the lid and replace the candle on top of the box. Allow the
candle to burn for one hour. Repeat this spell for three con-
secutive nights. On the third night, seal the box shut with
wax from the candle, then allow the black candle to burn
out. Bury the box or store it in a safe place. If the person in
the box continues to vex you, repeat the spell.
M
OON
The moon, like the sun, rises in the East and sets in the
West. Unlike the sun, the appearance of its size and shape
continually change, at least from our earth-bound perspec-
tive. In a lunar month there are four cycles of approximately
(cid:1)
133(cid:1) The Witch’’’’’s Master Grimoire
seven days. The phases the moon goes through include the
dark of the moon (also called the new moon). It waxes (grows
larger) until the first quarter is visible as the half moon. When
the moon continues to wax, its horns point to the East until
it reaches a full circle, known as the full moon. It will then
begin to diminish in size as it wanes through the last quarter,
with the horns pointing West, and continues to wane until
the new moon returns.
Dark (new) First Quarter Full Last Quarter
It is wise to time your magickal rites to coincide with the
proper phase of the moon. By doing this you take advantage
of lunar power, stay in sympathy with the natural pull of the
universe, and combine your energy with nature’s. The more
circumstances you can bring into alignment when doing
magick, the better the results will be.
Use the waxing moon to begin new projects, build friend-
ships, rekindle a romance, and create new business oppor-
tunities. During the full moon, nurture and reaffirm
intentions, focus energy on projects set in motion during
the new moon, and work to create success and abundance.
During the dark or waning moon, take time to reflect on
goals and ambitions. Use this time to break undesirable
habits and patterns and to undo negative influences com-
ing from others.
(cid:1)134(cid:1)
M
MOON MAGICK
Full Moon Blessing Rite
Items needed: Clear glass bowl, a one-liter bottle of
spring water, silver paint, sprig of jasmine, moon-
stone, two white altar candles, gardenia incense and
oil, small paint brush, and usual altar tools.
Use the silver paint to inscribe the following symbol on
the outside bottom of the bowl:
Set your altar so the light of the full moon shines directly
on it. Fill the bowl with the spring water. Place the bowl and
all the other items called for on the altar. Cast your magick
circle and then light the altar candles, saying:
Lady I now invite thee here
As the mother of sacred Earth,
Whose power is beyond compare
When dreams are given birth.
Hold the moonstone and sprig of jasmine in offering as
you ask this blessing:
Lady of desire, reflection of light
You are my motion, direction, and second sight.
Mother of creation, the original source,
You are potential, power, the ultimate force.
Grandmother of time, wise one from above,
I summon thee here with honor and love.
(cid:1)
135(cid:1) The Witch’’’’’s Master Grimoire
Gently place the moonstone and sprig of jasmine in the
water. Pick up the bowl and hold it in offering as you say:
I call the brilliant evening star,
The virgin of celestial light.
The gracious goddess from afar,
Great mother of second sight.
Glorious queen of the twilight hour
Wise and vigilant protector,
Thou whose silent power
Is regal and most splendor.
I beckon thee to now descend
Great mystery behind the veil
She who rises time and again
The keeper of the grail.
Set the bowl down. Anoint your forehead with a drop of
the water. Extinguish the candles, take up the circle, and
carefully place the bowl in a window where the moon will
continue to shine on it. Just before sunrise, remove the
jasmine and stone. Pour the contents of the bowl into a bottle
with a lid, and close tightly. Keep the moonstone with your
other magickal tools. Take the jasmine to the nearest river or
lake, toss it in the water as you make a wish. Use the moon
water to bless and consecrate your circle, or in place of oil to
anoint candles and other magickal objects.
Waxing Moon Money Spell
Items needed: One silver candle, 1 tsp. ground allspice,
almond oil.
On the night of the waxing moon, inscribe the silver
candle with the exact amount of money you need. Rub the
candle with the almond oil as you chant the following:
As the moon doth wax and grow
So to me doth money flow.
(cid:1)136(cid:1)
M
Once you feel the candle is thoroughly charged with your
wish, roll it in the allspice and light. Allow the candle to burn
for one hour and then extinguish. Repeat this spell each
night, at the same time, until the moon is full. On the night
of the full moon allow the candle to burn out.
Full Moon Love Spell
Items needed: One red candle and one white candle, 1
tsp. each of ginseng, jasmine, and lovage, three drops
each of rose oil, lavender oil, and violet oil, a small
white plate, a piece of parchment paper, and one 9”
strip of red ribbon.
On the day of the full moon, melt the red candle in a
double boiler. When the wax has melted, mix in the herbs
and oils. Remove the pan from the stove and stir the wax as
it begins to cool. Chant the following over the wax.
Mother of the moon, goddess of love,
Descend to me from far above.
Within this wax passion inspire
That I shall have the one I desire.
When the wax has cooled, but not solidified, dip the white
candle in it so that the herbal wax mixture thoroughly coats
the candle. Allow the candle to dry.
Then, beneath the full moon, inscribe your name on one
side of the candle and the name of the one you desire on the
opposite side of the candle. Hold the candle to your heart as
you repeat the previous chant. Fill the candle with all your
love and desire. When you feel the candle has been thor-
oughly charged, light it. Visualize you and the one your
desire together. Allow the candle to burn out.
(cid:1)
137(cid:1) The Witch’’’’’s Master Grimoire
Waning Moon Protection Charm
Items needed: One tsp. each patchouli, sandalwood,
and clove, an incense brazier, self-igniting charcoal,
and a small white stone inscribed with the following
protection sigil:
When the moon is no longer visible, place a piece of char-
coal in your brazier and light it. Mix the herbs together and
sprinkle them over the glowing coal. As the mixture begins
to burn, pass the stone through the smoke, as you chant:
Within this stone
I pass my plight,
Banished forever
From this night.
Take the stone to the nearest body of moving water. Toss
the stone in and walk away.
(cid:1)138(cid:1)
N
N
(cid:1)
139
(cid:1)
N
UMEROLOGY
Numerology is believed to be one of the oldest forms of
divination. The ancient Egyptians and Babylonians held
theories of the occult significance of numbers. During the
Middle Ages, numbers were especially important to the
Kabbalists, whose mystical system was based on a numeri-
cal system called gematria and the 22 letters of the Hebrew
alphabet.
However, it was the Greek mathematician and philoso-
pher Pythagoras who made the biggest impact on numeri-
cal theory. He believed that the whole universe was ordered
mathematically, and that everything in it could be expressed
in terms of numbers. He considered numbers to be the key
to the universe.
The basis of numerology is the belief that the numbers
from one to nine exert an influence on our lives and person-
alities. Each letter in the alphabet is therefore assigned a
numerical value from one through nine. When a person’s
name is spelled out, the numerical values can be seen and
then reduced to a single digit. Studying the numbers in a
person’s name reveals inclinations in love, health, vocation,(cid:1) The Witch’’’’’s Master Grimoire
and spirituality. Although numerology relies on mathemati-
cal configurations to construct personal profiles, it is far easier
to learn than astrology.
NUMBERS AND THEIR MEANINGS
One: Number one stands for all that is strong, individual,
and creative. Number one people have an unswerving drive
towards achievement. They are powerful characters, posi-
tive and self-reliant, and can be assertive. Most ones are
ambitious and aggressive. They have excellent powers of con-
centration and good memories, and are natural born lead-
ers and inventors.
As they are extremely independent, ones tend to work
better by themselves. However, a one can be obstinate, and
usually refuses to listen to or follow advice from subordinates.
Forceful and untiring, ones try to dominate everyone around
them, sometimes to the point of tyranny. They are, essen-
tially, people who look after number one. If their egos are
not kept in check, they can become very selfish and willful.
Two: Number two people are gentle, passive, and artistic,
and have soft, sweet natures. Twos are even-tempered lovers
of peace and harmony. They are especially tidy and modest.
The two is usually a follower rather than a leader, and
when twos do get their way, it is usually through persuasion
and diplomacy.
The number two person usually understands both sides
of a situation, so much so that he or she shifts back and
forth, never reaching a satisfactory decision. The two will
likely change his or her mind frequently and put things off
indefinitely. The very sense of judgment that enables them
to give good advice to friends often prevents twos from
making up their own minds. However, with the right friends
and associates, they will go far.
(cid:1)140(cid:1)
N
Three: A three person is brilliant, imaginative, versatile, and
energetic. Threes just seem to sparkle and glitter. They tend
to express their ideas boldly, and with great enthusiasm. They
have keen, intuitive minds and can learn quickly. However,
threes have a tendency to take on too much, spread their
energy in too many directions at once, and then not finish
what they have started.
Witty, lively, and charming, they are likely to become suc-
cessful in life, especially in the arts or spiritual endeavors.
Threes tend to be lucky and seem to succeed without really
trying. The three has fantastic potential and loves to be in
control and tell others what to do.
Four: A four person is earth-oriented, solid, and practical.
Fours may seem to lack the spark of the more creative vibra-
tions because of their efficiency. They are down-to-earth,
calm, steady, and respectable, the pillars of society. They are
cautious and don’t take risks.
Though fours are able to grasp new ideas quickly, they
prefer to study them before making any decisions.
Four people like routine and detailed work. They make
great technicians and researchers. Unfortunately, fours tend
to be grim, repressive, suspicious, and resentful of anyone
whose ways are not like theirs. The four usually gains friends
through honest, hard work, dependability, and constant
effort. Fours will always keep on plugging, and they always
finish what they start.
Five: The five is restless, jumpy, clever, and impatient. Fives
live off their nerves and coffee. They are ambitious and love
to travel, meet new people, and be in different surround-
ings. People with this vibration are capable, quick, and will-
ing to accept new ideas. They seem to be Jacks-of-all-trades.
The unusual and bizarre fascinate fives, who enjoy gambling,
speculation, and risks. They make excellent salespeople.
(cid:1)
141(cid:1) The Witch’’’’’s Master Grimoire
Fives are adventurous, attractive, and quick tempered.
They live for the moment and detest responsibility and mun-
dane activities. They hate to be tied down and committed to
routine tasks. Their lively nature tends to make them a bit
conceited and sarcastic. The five would rather learn the hard
way than take advice from others, which usually leads to set-
backs and even misfortune and loss.
Six: Six is the number of harmony, domesticity, and peace-
ful happiness. They have a great talent for friendship, home,
and family life. Sixes are kind, reliable, and well-balanced
individuals. These are the true homemakers. They just seem
to have the ability to get along with everyone—no matter
what their race, religion, or creed. Sixes love beauty, warmth,
and, above all, home and family. They appreciate the cultured
life and gravitate toward music, art, poetry, and sculpture.
Sixes are loyal, conscientious, idealistic, and affection-
ate. They are often called upon to fill positions of trust, and
generally live up to the expectations of others. If they do not
find fame, it is because they have become satisfied with what
they already have, and don’t reach for higher pinnacles. Let
a six run your business. He or she will have a way of attract-
ing followers and customers, and will usually be socially
prominent in the community.
Seven: Seven is the scholar, philosopher, and mystic. Intu-
ition is a strong part of a seven’s highly imaginative nature.
Sevens love the mysterious and anything to do with the
occult side of nature. Composers, musicians, students, phi-
losophers, and mystics are nurtured by this number. The
seven tends to withdraw from the world, inspired by soli-
tude. However, Sevens hate obscurity, and will usually blame
the world for their failure to gain prominence. Although
sevens are capable of solving intricate problems, they
seldom understand or really know themselves.
(cid:1)142(cid:1)
N
The seven has a penetrating intellect, hidden beneath a
dreamy facade that makes them seem fey and strange. Often
extraordinarily bad at explaining themselves, they can be very
frustrating, especially when they get upset at being ques-
tioned. If the they can avoid being pessimistic, aloof, and
always disappointed, they will become great teachers and
leaders—sevens naturally inspire loyalty.
Eight: Eight stands for power, money, and worldly involve-
ment. Eight is the number of material success—the steady
builder of vast commercial and industrial development. The
eight puts plans into action, completes them, and then goes
on to something bigger. Eights are strong and forceful. They
always demand and get the most from others. Opposition
does not stop them, and they can be ruthless with rivals and
subordinates.
Strong, practical people, eights make successful business-
men and politicians. They work hard, accumulate money,
and conduct their operations with caution and tenacity. Eight
spells success with dollar marks ($UCCE$$), and thrives on
progress. The weakness with this number lies in petty jeal-
ousies, wasted efforts, and indulgence. The eight can easily
become hard, materialistic, and tyrannical. But, when it
comes to money, eights have the true Midas touch.
Nine: The number nine combines influence with intellect.
Romantic, passionate, and impulsive, nines are people of
wide sympathies and great charm. They make brilliant sci-
entists, teachers, and artists. Strong-willed, wild, unortho-
dox, and impractical, they are always interesting. However,
they can be uncharitable and intolerant when opposed.
More often than not, nines become so involved with
their humanitarian efforts that they overlook the feelings
of those around them. Impatient and impulsive, they move
fast and have explosive tempers. If opposed, they are very
(cid:1)
143(cid:1) The Witch’’’’’s Master Grimoire
uncharitable and intolerant. The only time they are cautious
is when money is involved, but even then their impulsive
nature may give way to generosities not in their best interest.
If nines can learn control and balance there is nothing they
cannot do or achieve.
NUMEROLOGY ANALYSIS
To analyze an individual using numerology, begin with
the date of birth number. This represents the subject’s
inborn characteristics and is known as the personality
number. Next you will want to analyze the name number by
which your subject is best known. It will show traits devel-
oped during life. Your subject’s inner nature is best expressed
by the vowel number and is considered to be the number of
underlying influence.
To find a person’s primary date of birth number, you
must add all the numbers of the birth date together until
you have a single digit number. For example, is you were
born on May 1, 1950, you would first have to reduce May to
a number. May is the 5th month, or 5. You would then add
up all the numbers: 5 + 1 + 1 + 9 + 5 + 0 = 21. The 21 is
then reduced to a single digit: 2 + 1 = 3. Your birth number
would be 3, and this is the definition you would consult.
The Number Chart
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9
A B C D E F G H I
J K L M N O P Q R
S T U V W X Y Z
(cid:1)144(cid:1)
N
The next step is to analyze the name numerically. To do
this you convert the letters of the name into numbers using
the number-letter equivalents listed on the chart above. For
example, John Smith:
J O H N S M I T H
1 + 6 + 8 + 5 + 1 + 4 + 9 + 2 + 8 =44=4+4=8
The primary number for the name John Smith is 8, so
you would read the qualities associated with the number eight
to find out what traits John has developed throughout his
life. If the date of birth number and the name number coin-
cide, the individual will have a pretty smooth life. If they are
in opposition to each other it may indicate inner conflict
and problems.
The last thing to do is reduce the vowels in the person’s
name to one digit. This will show what influences are at work
beneath the surface.
(cid:1)
145(cid:1) The Witch’’’’’s Master Grimoire
O
(cid:1)146
(cid:1)
O
ILS
The sense of smell is one of the most powerful senses
humans have. Connected on a primal level to the uncon-
scious, smell reacts without your conscious knowledge or
will. Tied to memory, scent can bring pleasure, alert to
danger, cause revulsion, and affect health. Every odor that
you perceive causes a chemical reaction in the brain, trigger-
ing instincts rather than conscious actions. This is why oils
and incense have a prominent place in most magickal op-
erations: They automatically activate responses, bypassing
the reasoning self.
Fragrant oils are used to enhance magickal rites, to anoint
candles, and to bless and concrete objects, and can even be
burned in place of incense. Worn on the body, oils can trig-
ger a sensual, come hither state of mind or a don’t come any
closer, protective vibration. When oil is used in combination
with ritual bathing, it relaxes the body and invigorates the
mind, preparing it for magickal work.
The blending of magickal oils is simple and requires little
equipment other than an eye dropper, essential oils, and small
bottles for storage. If you wish to create your own special(cid:1)
O
blend, be sure the ingredients complement each other and
reflect the desired goal. To enhance the effectiveness of your
oil, add a crystal, semiprecious stone, flower, seed, or leaf to
the bottle. Always be sure to label the bottle according to its
purpose and date of creation.
Oil Fragrance Categories
Sweet Sour Musky Woodsy
Vanilla Orange Musk Sandalwood
Heliotrope Lemon Dark Musk Rosewood
Violet Lime Patchouli
Myrrh Verbena Civet Flowery
Rose
Spicy Fruity Minty Wisteria
Carnation Fruit of Life Peppermint Jasmine
Allspice Cherry Spearmint Gardenia
Cinnamon Orange Balm Honeysuckle
Bayberry Apple Sage Tuberose
Lavender Pineapple Magnolia
Bergamot
(cid:1)
147(cid:1) The Witch’’’’’s Master Grimoire
Standard Magickal Oil Recipes
Love-Drawing Oil Desire Me Oil
1 pair Adam and Eve roots 2 parts white musk oil
1 part rose oil 2 parts jasmine oil
1 part cherry oil 2 parts lotus oil
1 part musk oil 2 parts violet oil
1 part narcissus oil 1 rose quartz in bottle
Money-Drawing Oil Crown of Success Oil
2 parts apricot oil base 2 parts sunflower oil
2 parts cinnamon oil 2 parts orange oil
2 parts clove oil 2 parts allspice oil
2 parts frankincense oil 2 parts ambergris oil
1 small high John root in bottle Add gold glitter to bottle
Power Oil Protection Oil
2 parts safflower oil 2 parts patchouli oil
2 parts sandalwood oil 2 parts sandalwood oil
2 parts orange oil 2 parts frankincense oil
2 parts pine oil 2 parts verbena oil
2 parts blue sonata 1 onyx chip
1 garnet 1 wormwood leaf or stem
1 ruby
(cid:1)148(cid:1)
P
P
(cid:1)
149
(cid:1)
P
ENTACLE
No other symbol is more widely associated with Witch-
craft than the pentacle, a round disk engraved with a penta-
gram (five-pointed star). The circle surrounding the
pentagram is the universal symbol of totality. The penta-
gram itself symbolizes the human microcosm. It also repre-
sents the five elements: Air, Fire, Water, Earth, and Spirit.
Upright (as pictured), the pentacle depicts the spirit above
matter and is a symbol of the Goddess. Inverted, it corre-
sponds to matter above spirit, the quest for temporal gain,
and the Horned God of materialism.
In the practice of magick, the pentacle represents the
practitioners’ ability to create or manifest desire. As the
embodiment of the element of Earth and the realm of mate-
rialism, the pentacle provides a place, like an artist’s canvas,(cid:1) The Witch’’’’’s Master Grimoire
on which abstract thought forms can be brought to life. From
a spiritual or esoteric viewpoint, the pentacle represents the
realm of birth, life, death, and renewal.
During a magickal operation, practitioners use the
symbol of the pentacle to help conceptualize their thoughts,
believing that what they see in their minds’ eyes they will
surely realize in physical form. The pentacle becomes the
point of focus where all the practitioner’s attention is
directed. If practitioners are totally focused and are able to
force their will toward a single purpose, they will achieve
results and make manifest their desires.
The true beauty and power of the pentacle lies in its
versatility. It provides the practitioner with a mode of
expression and a place to arrange his or her thought forms
until they can be forced into reality. For example, by placing
the logo or symbol of your coven or lodge on the pentacle
and charging the logo during ritual, you endow those affili-
ated with the group a portion of the energy raised. This is
especially helpful during fund-raising campaigns or when
trying to recruit new members.
PHYSICAL PROPERTIES OF THE PENTACLE
When performing a magickal rite, it is important that
the symbols you use convey your objective. As an agency of
the Earth element, the pentacle makes the ideal surface on
which to place your symbolic representations during ritual.
Because the pentacle will be serving as the host to your
magickal objectives, it is important to consider the physical
properties of the pentacle itself. These include: the sub-
stance you make your pentacle from, color, and inscriptions
or engravings.
Wood
Wood is symbolic of the mother, the Goddess, and
wisdom. Wood makes an ideal pentacle, and is very easy to
(cid:1)150(cid:1)
P
work with. Wood absorbs and radiates energy, infusing the
focused thought forms into the objects placed upon it.
Choose the wood for your pentacle according to the natural
vibrations you would like it to have.
Apple: Belongs to Aphrodite, Venus, Freya, Ishtar,
Cerridwen, and the element of Water; used for love, pas-
sion, fertility, foundation, and inspiration.
Ash: Corresponds to the gods Neptune, Odin, and Mercury
and the elements of Air and Water; aids in mental clarity.
Birch: Associated with the mysteries of the Goddess; the
elements of Earth, Air, and Water; is used in making parch-
ment; contributes to health, healing, and general magick.
Hawthorn: Belongs to Mars, Thor, Blodeuwedd, and Hera;
the elements of Fire and Earth; allows access to the under-
world; is protective, cleansing, and helps to manifest desire.
Hazel: Equates with Mercury, Hermes, Woden, and Thor;
the elements of Air and Water; is associated with dowsing,
divination, finding hidden things, and developing wisdom.
Maple: Corresponds to Jupiter; the element of Air; promotes
love, longevity, and material success.
Oak: Associated with Zeus, Thor, Juno, Diana, Rhea,
Demeter, Dagda, Bridget; the elements of Fire and Earth,
and sometimes Water; permits entrance into the mysteries,
is a keeper of knowledge, and promotes courage, spiritual
strength, and protection.
Pine: Aligns with Mars, Freya, Osiris, Cybele; the element of
Fire; helps with birth, purification, insight, and divination.
Metal
Metals are the bones of the Earth; the reflection of the
powers of the God and Goddess. Metals are beautiful, they
conduct energy, and they were considered to be sacred in
(cid:1)
151(cid:1) The Witch’’’’’s Master Grimoire
ancient times. In addition to their temporal qualities, each
metal is aligned with a planetary energy that influences all it
comes in contact with. Most New Age and Occult shops carry
a variety of planetary pentacles for practitioners to choose
from. The following six metals are most often used in the
construction of altar pentacles.
Silver: Associated with the Moon, Artemis, Selene, Hecate,
Diana, Sin, Shiva; the element of Water; encourages the femi-
nine mystique, intuition, instinctive wisdom, spiritual and
psychic understanding, fertility, and magick.
Gold: Belongs to the Sun, Apollo, Dionysius, Helios, Sol,
Vishnu, Ra; the element of Fire; develops strength, power,
success, achievement, wealth, and masculine energy.
Copper: Corresponds to Venus, Aphrodite, Ishtar, Lakshmi,
Bast; the elements Water and Fire; aids with matters of the
heart, love, passion, friendship, reconciliation of differences,
harmony, beauty, and attraction.
Tin: Associated with Jupiter, Zeus, Athens, Poseidon,
Minerva, Marduk, and Indra; the element of Water; helps
with idealism, expansion, attracting success, obtaining jus-
tice, religious leadership, and prosperity.
Iron: Belongs to Mars, Volcanus, Durga, and Sekhmet; the
element of Fire; supports dynamic energy, enthusiasm, cour-
age, bodily strength, and war.
Lead: Corresponds to Saturn, Hera, Kronos, Saeturnus,
Parvati, Kali, and Ptah; the element of Earth; encourages
creativity, the bringing of ideas into material form, restric-
tion, formation, discipline.
Stone
Stone is the symbol of stability, durability, immorality,
cohesion, and the indestructibility of the supreme reality.
(cid:1)152(cid:1)
P
Stones often accompany trees in sacred places, or stand alone
to mark a sacred place or event. The Stone of Foundation is
the rock on which the universe was founded, the keystone of
the Earth and source of the waters of life, the rock that pre-
vails against Hades and the powers of the underworld. The
stones listed here are ones that usually come in slices or sec-
tions large enough to fashion into a pentacle.
Agate: Associated with Mercury; the elements of Earth and
Fire; helps to build courage, strength, and self healing, is
good for protection.
Beryl: Corresponds to Neptune, Tiamat, Mara; the element
of Water; can be used for healing, love, and to stop gossip.
Calcite: Equates with Venus; the element of Water, aids in
centering, spiritual endeavors, purification, protections, and
healing.
Geodes: Associated with the Great Mother; the element of
Water; are used for meditation and fertility.
Malachite: Corresponds to Venus; the element of Earth; is
good to use for love, peace, business success , and power.
Petrified Wood: Is not an actual stone but rather a fossil
that is associated with the Akasha and the elements; most
often used for past-life regression, healing, and protection.
P
LANETS
Millions of years old, from ancient Babylon to modern
times, the planets have always symbolized the essential forces
of the universe. Equated with the gods, endowed with
magickal attributes, and viewed as lights of influence, then
and now the planets affect all aspects of daily life.
(cid:1)
153(cid:1) The Witch’’’’’s Master Grimoire
The sun and the moon, which dominated the daylight
hours and night skies, were the first “planets” to be associ-
ated with the life-giving forces of the elements, seasons, and
man’s day-to-day struggle to survive. These two luminaries
were credited with the power to control the cyclic process
and deified as the source of life itself.
As mythology and storytelling evolved, so did the god-
like qualities of the celestial bodies, and their ability to con-
trol human existence. Besides the sun and moon, the father
and mother of the universe, other planetary gods and god-
desses began to emerge, each with his or her own individual
identity and domain of influence.
The sun, moon, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus, and
Saturn (the sun and moon are regarded as planets in this
sense) formed the original pantheon of heavenly powers
that ruled over the affairs of humans. Each planet was as-
signed an area of influence that controlled the human en-
deavors within that realm. For example, the Sun was equated
with the Greek god Apollo, and governed strength, self-
expression, and vitality, which were associated with leader-
ship, royalty, and government.
Learning to use planetary energy makes magickal work
easier, since each planet relates to everyday life in some way.
Basically, just about everything we do or seek to achieve is
subordinate to a planetary force. Magickally, this means that
everything in creation responds to a specific planetary en-
ergy. Therefore, if you know which energy rules or governs a
certain object or event, then you can use the corresponding
planetary power to influence it. The more you know about
the planets and their corresponding attributes and symbols,
the more precise you can be in designing magickal rites.
(cid:1)154(cid:1)
P
PLANETARY CORRESPONDENCES
Sun
Glyph
Symbols Hexagram, diadem, alchemical crucible
Deities Apollo, Sol, Dionysos, Helios, Bridget, Aine,
Macha
Archangel Michael
Day Sunday
Colors Gold, yellow
Numbers One or six
Metal Gold
Stones Diamond, amber, clear quartz, topaz
Incense Frankincense, sandalwood
Plant Bay, cinnamon, heliotrope, marigold, orange
Trees Oak, pine
Animals Lion, hawk, bull
The sun is authoritative, creative, courageous, and heal-
ing. With its life-giving warmth, the sun is at the center of
existence, and whatever exists at the center will activate what
is at the perimeter. It is primarily associated with will power,
activity, authority, and leadership. The sun should be used
to acquire self-esteem, attract fame and material success,
encourage physical strength and courage, aid physical heal-
ing, and assist with political ambition.
Moon
Glyph
Symbols Crescent, cup, silver sickle
Deities Hecate, Selene, Diana, Thoth
Archangel Gabriel
Day Monday
Colors Silver, white,
Number Two
Metal Silver
(cid:1)
155(cid:1) The Witch’’’’’s Master Grimoire
Stones Moonstone, pearl, chalcedony, mother of
pearl
Incense Jasmine, lotus, ylang-ylang
Plants Lily, hyacinth, iris, narcissus
Trees Willow, hawthorn
Animals Crab, owl, vulture, horse
There are more myths and legends about the moon than
any other planetary body. The moon just seems to ignite the
imagination and quicken the mystical senses. Lighting the
night sky, the moon allows us to see past reality and into the
shadows of night. The moon is receptive, reflects the light of
the sun, and governs our physical and emotional responses.
Lunar magick works best when it is used to learn control
over emotions, create passion, assist with glamour-magick,
and increase intuition and psychic abilities.
Mars
Glyph
Symbols Pentagram, lance, scourge
Deities Mars, Volcanus, Durga, Sekhmet
Archangel Samuel
Day Tuesday
Colors Red, burgundy
Number Five
Metal Iron
Stones Bloodstone, flint, onyx, garnet, ruby
Incense Dragonsblood, galangal, tobacco
Plants Bloodroot, ginger, snapdragon, nettle
Trees Rowan, ash, pepper tree
Animals Ram, wolf, scorpion, salamander
Mars is dynamic energy, enthusiasm, and resolution. It
rules personal expression, character, and bodily strength.
Mars represents action and it induces humans to take risks
and to rush into things before thinking. The key image of
Mars is force—pushing and shoving to fit with little regard
(cid:1)156(cid:1)
P
for right or wrong. Under the rulership of this planet we
find a instinctive need to lead, to survive, and to clear the
path of all obstacles that stand in the way of personal
accomplishment. Mars energy should be used to build
strength of character, reinforce determination, confront en-
emies, and win battles.
Mercury
Glyph
Symbol Caduceus, scroll, stylus
Deities Hermes, Mercurius, Thoth,
Archangel Raphael
Day Wednesday
Colors Yellow, orange, apricot
Number Eight
Metals Mercury (quicksilver), zinc
Stones Citrine, agate
Incense Styrax (liquid storax), gum arabic, lavender
Plants Lavender, marjoram, star anise, bittersweet
Trees Birch, aspen, almond
Animals Fox, cheetah, baboon, ostrich, carrier pigeon
Mercury is symbolically related to communication and
the ability to think. It governs the human potential to
reason, make decisions, evaluate situations, and analyze facts.
Creative thinking, rational thinking, and original thinking
are unique to humans, setting us apart from the animal king-
dom. Thinking is a powerful tool and carries with it a tre-
mendous amount of responsibility. All people are responsible
for using their minds in an honorable manner and for the
betterment of all living things. Mercury should be used to
enhance the thought process, remove stress, tension, and
depression, and increase creativity and original thinking.
(cid:1)
157(cid:1) The Witch’’’’’s Master Grimoire
Jupiter
Glyph
Symbols Thunderbolt, trident, crown
Deities Zeus, Athena, Jupiter, Minerva, Tinia,
Marduk, Maat
Archangel Sachiel
Day Thursday
Colors Purple, dark blue
Number Four
Metal Tin
Stones Amethyst, lepidolite, sugilite
Incense Pine, sandalwood, clove
Plants Borage, sage, betony, nutmeg
Tree Juniper, cedar, pine, sycamore
Animals Whale, swan, eagle
Jupiter corresponds to knowledge, understanding, good
judgment, and prosperity. It rules the concepts of expan-
sion, opportunity, and good fortune. Jupiter is a joyful planet
that promotes abundance through realistic effort and hard
work. One thing that Jupiter helps people do is change their
attitudes from a negative to positive. Once the attitude
changes, so does everything else, because if you have a posi-
tive frame of mind you can accomplish just about anything.
Use Jupiter to attract wealth and great riches, build dignity,
acquire wisdom and make good judgments, improve moral
values, increase financial health, and expand knowledge and
understanding of religious and philosophical concepts.
Venus
Glyph
Symbols Mirror, girdle, shell
Deity Venus, Aphrodite, Ishtar, Lakshmi, Bast
Archangel Anael
Day Friday
Colors Green, turquoise, luminescent greenish white
(cid:1)158(cid:1)
P
Number Seven
Metal Copper
Stone Emerald, jade, lapis lazuli, chrysocolla, coral
Incense Rose, lilac, violet
Plants Rose, iris, orchid, orris, passion flower,
vanilla
Trees Apple, cherry, avocado, fig
Animals Lynx, cat, rabbit, dove, sparrow
Venus is the epitome of the feminine mystique, the queen
of love and beauty. Venus offers what others cannot, the qual-
ity of simple abundance. All of nature responds to Venus
and the pleasures she affords. Passion, peace, affection,
money, success, and friendships all come under the rule of
Venus. Use Venus to arouse the passions of a loved one,
create a peaceful environment, acquire money, become suc-
cessful, and gain new friendships.
Saturn
Glyph
Symbols Scythe, key, double axe
Deities Saturn, Kronos, Hera, Kali, Net
Archangel Cassiel
Day Saturday
Color Black
Number Three
Metal Lead
Stones Onyx, obsidian, jet, hematite, apache tear
Incense Patchouli, Myrrh
Plants Belladonna, hemlock, ladyslipper, yew
Trees Beech, yew, elm, ebony, cypress
Animals Goat, spider, goose, bat
Saturn is the planet of stability and restriction. Its ener-
gies test our balance and endurance. In some ways Saturn
symbolizes time, which, with its ravenous appetite for life,
(cid:1)
159(cid:1) The Witch’’’’’s Master Grimoire
devours all its creations. Saturn, like time, brings restless-
ness, the sense of duration lasting from the moment of
stimulus up to the peak of satisfaction. Saturn is slow, delib-
erate, disciplined success. Use Saturn to improve concen-
tration, discipline a lazy mind, become better at work, and
motivate yourself.
Each one of the seven planets produces a different
energy field or vibration that can be used to enhance
magickal operations. By incorporating this energy into your
magickal works, you increase their effectiveness. For example,
a love-drawing ritual would have tremendous impact if it
were timed to coincide with the vibrations of Venus. Like-
wise, you would greatly reinforce a personal success spell by
doing it on a Sunday and taking advantage of solar energy.
In addition to timing, try to include some planetary sym-
bolism in your magickal rite. Want to give that protection
spell a big boost? Plan to do your spell on a Saturday night.
Use three black candles and patchouli incense, and include
three pieces of jet in the work. If time permits, make a black
bag in the shape of bat to carry your protection symbols in.
The more refined your spells are, the better, and faster, they
will work.
P
OPPET
A poppet is a doll fashioned from
cloth or clay to represent a person or
persons at whom a spell is directed.
The cloth doll is usually stuffed with
Spanish moss, to give it form, and
herbs that correspond with the pri-
mary intention of the spell. When clay is used, small amounts
of the primary herbs are crushed and then mixed in with
the soft clay. Photographs, hair, nail clippings, and clothing
(cid:1)160(cid:1)
P
belonging to the person are then added to the doll. The
intention is to make the doll resemble the person, so that
what is done to the doll will in turn actually happen to the
person.
In most cases, poppets are used for love-drawing spells,
healing rites, and in some cases to protect an individual from
harm. The entire process is based on the first principle of
magick, the Law of Similarity (also referred to as homeo-
pathic or imitative magick), which basically states that like
produces like, or that an effect may resemble its cause.
Simply put, whatever you do to the symbolic representation
of a person, place or thing will directly affect that same per-
son, place, or thing.
LOVE-BINDING SPELL
The intention of this spell is to bind two people together.
The first thing you need to do is make two poppets from red
cloth. Leave one end of each poppet open for stuffing. Fill
each poppet with equal amounts of the following ground
herbs: clove, orris root, blessed thistle, coriander, yarrow, and
Solomon’s seal. Insert into each poppet some hair, nail clip-
pings, and handwriting from each person. Sew up the open-
ings. If you have facial photographs, paste these on the front
side of the dolls’ heads. Dress each poppet in a piece of cloth-
ing belonging to the person the poppet is to represent.
The poppets are then ready to bind together using the fol-
lowing rite.
Items needed: 3’ length of red silk cord, love-drawing
oil, love-drawing incense, and one red candle that
will burn for at least seven hours.
Begin this spell on a Monday during the waxing moon.
Place the red candle in the center of your altar and light the
incense. Use a pin or sharp knife to etch the names of each
(cid:1)
161(cid:1) The Witch’’’’’s Master Grimoire
person into the candle. Dress the candle with the love-drawing
oil as you chant:
Candle of love, work me this spell,
That the one I do love will love me as well.
Light the candle. Pass each poppet through the smoke
of the incense and then through the candle flame as
you say:
Air and fire, bring forth my desire.
Place the poppet that represents you seven inches to the
left side of the candle and the poppet that represents your
loved one seven inches to the right of the candle. See in
your mind’s eye the one you love as you chant the following
seven times:
I enchant you by earth and heaven
Turn to me, turn to me, turn to me by seven.
Through moonlight and the black of night
All of my love you shall requite.
[Insert name] think of me with loving pleasure
As you turn to me by daily measure.
Now turn to me, turn to me
For this I will, So Mote It Be.
Let the candle burn for one hour. Repeat the spell
exactly as you have just done it for six consecutive nights.
Each time you do the spell, move the poppets one inch closer
to the candle. On the seventh night the dolls should be
touching the candle, but not to the point that they will catch
fire. At this time you will allow the candle to burn out. As
soon as the candle has extinguished itself, use the red cord
to bind the poppets together face to face. Conceal the dolls
in a place where you and your loved one will meet.
(cid:1)162(cid:1)
P
PERSONAL SUCCESS POPPET
This poppet will help you land a new job, get a promo-
tion, or achieve that special goal. You will need to make a
doll out of a piece of your clothing. Coarsely grind equal
amounts of the following herbs: cinnamon, bay, marigold,
orange peel, rosemary, witch hazel. Fill the poppet with the
herb mixture and sew up the opening. Affix a full length
photograph of yourself to the front of the poppet. Tie a bright
yellow silk sash around the poppet. Be sure the poppet is
well-made and pleasing to look at. Place the poppet in the
center of your altar and consecrate it for personal success.
Items needed: One yellow or gold candle, success
incense, and a shadow box large enough to hold the
poppet and 60 small items.
Start this rite on a Sunday morning during the waxing
moon. Light the candle and incense. Pass the poppet
through the incense smoke and then the candle flame chant-
ing six times:
With air and smoke, flame and fire
I now consecrate thee to my desire.
Hold the poppet close to your mouth. Speaking softly
and with great intent, breathe your desire into the poppet.
Repeat the process six times, each time passing the poppet
through the incense and the flame of the candle as you re-
peat the chant. Allow the candle to burn for one hour.
Each day for the next 59 days, light the candle and speak
of your desire. Then place an object that represents your
desire next to the poppet in the box.
For example, if you wanted a pay raise, place a picture of
your boss in the box next to the poppet. The next day, place
some of his or her handwriting in the box, then a copy of a
paycheck with your new salary on it, and so on.
(cid:1)
163(cid:1) The Witch’’’’’s Master Grimoire
At the end of the last day, allow the candle to burn out.
Arrange all the items in the box along with the poppet in a
manner that portrays your desire. Hang the shadow box on
the wall near your desk, altar, or bed.
THE HEALING POPPET
Fashion small sticks of applewood into a human frame
and cover with green cotton cloth to form the poppet. Fill
with the following coarsely ground herbs: angelica, eucalyp-
tus, ginseng, life everlasting, peppermint, spearmint, and
wintergreen. Attach a photograph of the person to be healed
to the poppet.
Begin the spell during the waning moon. Place the
poppet on your altar next to a black candle. Using your
athame, inscribe the person’s name into the candle along
with their ailment. Light the candle. Hold the poppet in
front of the candle and chant the following seven times:
I take away hurt, I take away pain
From you body, this illness I drain.
Visualize the illness leaving the poppet (and therefore
the body of the sick person), and flowing into the black
candle. Let the candle burn out. Place the poppet in a safe
place and bury the candle far from your home.
P
OTION
You just can’t help associating glowing cauldrons and
magickal potions with Witchcraft. Cartoons, movies, and fairy
tales are filled with enchanting sorceresses whispering over
steaming philters of fascination. One drink, and you are for-
ever under her spell. Or, in a less favorable light, there is
always a haggard old crone bending over her bubbling brew
(cid:1)164(cid:1)
P
of noxious goo, intended to bring instant death to the beau-
tiful princess.
From the Holy Bible to Shakespeare’s Macbeth, we find
Witches and their magick potions healing the sick and deal-
ing out death to the enemy. According to some ancient
grimoires, with the right magickal potion you can become
invisible, fly on a broomstick, be forever young and beauti-
ful, or turn your neighbor into a toad. (I like that one, and
I’m sorry to say that it isn’t available at this time. In fact,
it may be that the powers of our ancestors have been slightly
exaggerated.)
The American Heritage Dictionary defines the word
potion as “a dose or drink, especially a liquid drink or poi-
son.” Basically potions are nothing more than herbs steeped
in water for medicinal purposes. However, there are those
occasions when a love potion is called for to rekindle a dying
flame. A word of advice: Always be careful when making a
potion. Follow the recipe exactly, and don’t get creative. There
are some areas of magick that need to be approached with
caution, and this is one of them.
LOVE-DRAWING POTION
Items needed: One glass sauce pan, dove’s blood ink,
a small paint brush, sweet red wine, a metal tea ball,
one cup honey, and the following herbs: 3 fresh mint
leaves, 7 rosebud petals, 1 pinch orange zest (orange
peel), 1 pinch coriander, and 1 pinch basil.
Put the herbs into the tea ball and set aside. On the out-
side of the glass pan, write the name of the person you
desire seven times. On the inside of the pan, inscribe the
symbol for Venus.
Fill the pan with two cups of spring water. Bring the water
to a boil, insert the tea ball, turn off the heat, and allow the
(cid:1)
165(cid:1) The Witch’’’’’s Master Grimoire
brew to steep for 10 minutes. Remove the tea ball and add
the honey. Bring the liquid back to a boil and then reduce to
a simmer. When the liquid has turned into a thick, yellow
syrup, turn off the heat and allow it to cool. Pour the syrup
into a bottle and label. Add several drops of the syrup to the
wine, juice, or food you plan to serve your loved one.
If you are feeling brave, invite your loved one to join
you in a candlelight supper. Arrange a centerpiece of red,
white, and gold heart shaped candles anointed with
love-drawing oil, and small vases of pink rose buds.
Burn love-drawing incense and wear your most alluring outfit.
(cid:1)166(cid:1)
P
Sample Menu
White fruity wine (add 3 drops love potion).
Hearts of palm arranged on a bed of romaine lettuce
topped with seven cocktail shrimp, served with honey
mustard dressing (add 3 drops of love potion to dressing).
Baked quail (one each) garnished with
spiced apple rings.
Asparagus with hollandaise sauce (add 3 drops love
potion to sauce).
Long grain and wild rice with mushrooms.
Heart shaped crepes filled with fresh strawberries,
topped with whipped cream (add 3 drops love potion),
and garnished with fresh mint leaves.
Warm brandy (add 3 drops love potion).
(cid:1)
167(cid:1) The Witch’’’’’s Master Grimoire
R
(cid:1)168
(cid:1)
R
UNES
The word “rune” comes from the Old Norse run, which
means secret. The runes were an ancient Germanic alpha-
bet, once used for everyday communication as well as for
mystical purposes and divination. The Vikings used runes
to protect their homes and add power to their swords and
shields. The Shamans of Scandinavia used them in healing,
to cast spells, and to protect burial mounds.
The runes consist of 24 letters and one blank. The 24
runes are dedicated to three Norse deities and are divided
into three sets of eight, known as Freyr’s Aett, Hagal’s Aett,
and Tyr’s Aett. The 25th, or blank, rune is called wyrd and
symbolizes the unknowable or destiny. The traditional mean-
ing of the blank rune is, “In the lap of the Gods,” or “What will,
be will be.”
Professionally crafted rune sets can be purchased at
almost any New Age or Occult book store. These are nice
because they come with an instruction book and storage
pouch. However, it is just as easy to make your own, and
infuse them with your energy during the process.(cid:1)
R
Flat, evenly shaped stones, ceramic tiles, wooden sticks,
or self-hardening clay all make wonderful runes. Once they
are painted or engraved with the appropriate rune symbol
they become just as magickal as any store bought item. If
you choose to make a set of runes you will also need to make
a cloth pouch to keep them in. Choose a soft, heavy fabric in
a color that will both protect and energize your runes when
not in use.
RUNE STONE MEANINGS
Freyr’s Aett (first eight runes)
1. Wunjo
Joy. Joy and happiness coming into your life.
Success. Good news. Joy in one’s work.
Affection from a loved one.
Reversed (the symbol is seen upside down):
Opposite of the above.
2. Gebo
Partnership. There could be a gift involved.
Always a positive sign because there is no
reverse involved. Important development in
a romantic relationship. Could mean marriage
or business partnership.
Reversed: There is no reverse. Same as above.
(cid:1)
169(cid:1) The Witch’’’’’s Master Grimoire
3. Kano
Open. Friendly, open, and warm. Strength,
energy, and power. Positive action. Problems
and troubles solved easily. Good things
coming into your life. Good time to start
something new.
Reversed: Opposite of the above.
4. Raido
Journey. Travel with pleasure, without prob-
lems. Possible journey of the soul. Period of
logical thought. A good time to buy or sell.
Reversed: Opposite of the above.
5. Ansuz
Signals. The spoken word or heeding advice.
A time to think before speaking. Eloquence
and ease. Discovery of secret ability.
Reversed: Lies, trickery, general deceit. Get a
second opinion.
6. Thurisaz
Gateway. Unexpected good luck. Good health.
Protection. Warns against headstrong action.
Reversed: No desire to heed the warnings
about headstrong action, will press on regard-
less. Your luck is running out. Self-deception.
(cid:1)170(cid:1)
R
7. Uruz
Strength. Virility, good health and strong
resistance. Of strong emotions. Could be
recovering from ill health. Not much
improvement in business matters. Could be
a promotion.
Reversed: Imminent failure. Weak will. Low
vitality. Could be a small illness.
8. Fehu
Possessions. Signifies material gain, could
mean wealth. Goals are now within your grasp.
Ability to overcome opposition.
Reversed: Loss or disappointment. Frustration.
Hagal’s Aett (second eight runes)
9. Sowelu
Wholeness. Progress and success. Possible
travel. Success with examinations. Good
health. Recovery from illness. Conquest, vic-
tory and power.
Reversed: Warning against overworking. Be
more considerate of your loved ones.
10. Algiz
Protection. Unexpected help from an unsym-
pathetic person when it is most needed. A
time to stand your ground. Be careful to hold
tight to your principles. Invincibility.
Reversed: Vulnerability. Possible loss or injustice.
(cid:1)
171(cid:1) The Witch’’’’’s Master Grimoire
11. Perth
Initiation. Secrets. Psychic powers. An unfore-
seen turn of events. Possible news from afar.
A joyful reunion with someone from the past.
Reversed: Disappointment.
12. Eithwaz
Defense. Try to look ahead, anticipate what is
coming. A time of difficulty that will require
tact and diplomacy. After a slight delay, things
will improve.
Reversed: Warning, be ever watchful.
13. Jera
Harvest. You will reap the benefits of your
efforts. A time to receive what has been well
earned. A good time to finalize a contract or
complete a task. Financial matters will improve
in the days to come.
Reversed: Slight delay in financial improve-
ment, could be a slight disappointment.
14. Isa
Standstill. The ice rune. Indicates that you
should remain still. You may be on thin ice so
it is best not to move. Time of patience and
understanding. Temporary parting. Sacrifice.
Submission.
Reversed: The ice is beginning to thaw, things
will improve.
(cid:1)172(cid:1)
R
15. Naurthiz
Constraint. A bad time to embark on any new
venture. Avoid anything that seems to be a
bargain or a quick way of making money with-
out effort. Now is the time for patience
and planning.
Reversed: A time for caution. Think before
acting. Make no moves at this time. If you
have made an unwise choice, cut your losses
and call it a day.
16. Hagalaz
Disruption. Unforeseen forces are working
against you, be careful. Be prepared for an
unpleasant surprise. Use caution.
Reverse: You will be able to ride this one out.
Keep fighting and don’t loose focus.
Tyr’s Aett (third eight runes)
17. Othila
Separation. Separation in the sense of
moving in a new direction at this time. There
could be an inheritance or business deal on
the horizon. The future is changing.
Reversed: There could be financial disputes
or opposition to a plan.
(cid:1)
173(cid:1) The Witch’’’’’s Master Grimoire
18. Dagaz
Breakthrough. A time of transformation. Free-
dom. A weight has been lifted from your shoul-
ders. Winning, even when the odds are stacked
against you. Positive changes are coming.
Reversed: At last you can see the light at the
end of the tunnel. Changes may be slow, but
they’re still coming.
19. Inguz
Fertility. A goal realized. A problem solved.
Time to relish in the victory of a job well done.
Take a rest and reflect.
Reversed: There is no reverse. Same as above.
20. Laguz
Flow. A long journey may be in the offing. A
trip overseas. Time to go with the flow, your
instincts. Feel rather than think.
Reversed: Heed good advice from others. Look
out for temptation. Not a good sign.
21. Mannaz
Self. Time to think about yourself. Plan
changes. A good time to change employment
or residence. You are making steady progress.
Reversed: Keep your emotions in control at
this time; changes may be postponed.
(cid:1)174(cid:1)
R
22. Ehwaz
Movement. New beginnings. A time of excite-
ment. Change is in the air. Travel. A
good time to keep things in perspective. You
feel confident.
Reversed: Be mindful of others and keep emo-
tions in check.
23. Berkana
Growth. New energies are present. New
ventures are on the horizon. Could mean
birth or pregnancy for a woman. New and
fresh ideas. Possible sign of marriage. A fa-
vorable time.
Reversed: Keep a keen eye out for family prob-
lems, disruptions with friends, or anxiety.
24. Teiwaz
Warrior. A time to move forward and experi-
ence an adventure. New things on the hori-
zon. A time to be bold and courageous.
Victory can be yours. A time of great passion.
Reversed: There could be a loss in business.
Stagnation. A time of raw emotions. Take care
and be careful.
(cid:1)
175(cid:1) The Witch’’’’’s Master Grimoire
25. The last rune,
the blank rune.
Wyrd: The unknowable. Fate. This rune tells
you to place your fate with the Gods. There is
nothing you can do at this time. Fate is power.
You must let be what will be. Your problem or
situation is way beyond your control at this
time. “In the lap of the gods” signifies pow-
erful changes, changes that are out of your
control. There is no reverse for this rune. Use
the other runes in your reading for advice.
RUNE LAYOUT PATTERNS
One rune method
This is by far the easiest method for reading the runes,
especially if you have a specific question that needs immedi-
ate attention. Cup the runes in your hand, concentrate on
your question, and ask it aloud. Place the runes back in their
pouch and mix them thoroughly. Dip into the pouch and
pull one rune only. This will be the answer to your question.
The nice thing about the runes, and this particular
method, is that you can use them anywhere. So if you are at
work and having a problem with someone or something, use
your break time to consult the runes. They will provide you
with a quick solution to set things right again.
Three rune method
This method is very much like the first. Cup the runes
in your hand, concentrate on your question, and ask it aloud.
Place the runes back in the pouch and mix them thoroughly.
Pull three runes from the pouch and place them in front of
you (see diagram). The first rune, to the left, indicates the
basis of the problem, or present situation. The middle rune
(cid:1)176(cid:1)
R
shows the vibrations currently surrounding you. The last
rune, the one you placed to the right, gives you the answer
or suggests the proper action to be taken.
The runic cross method
Cup the runes in your hand, concentrate on
your question, and speak it aloud. Put the runes back in the
pouch and mix them thoroughly. Pull five runes fromthe
pouch, one at a time. Lay the first three out in a row from
left to right. The fourth goes above the center stone and the
fifth is placed below the center stone. All five stones should
be face down.
Turn the center stone up. This represents the present
situation and what is going on now. The stone to the left is
the past. Turn this stone over next; it will tell you which past
vibrations are still affecting the present situation.
The top stone is next. This stone explains what outside
help or self-help is necessary to improve the situation as it
stands. The bottom stone is now turned over. This stone will
tell you what changes can or cannot be expected.
The last stone to be turned over is the one on the right
arm of the cross. This stone represents the future, the final
outcome of the reading. For more clarification, pull a sixth
rune. This rune is placed at the bottom of the cross, under
the fifth stone. This sixth rune will denote new, fresh influ-
ences that could affect the situation and its final outcome.
(cid:1)
177(cid:1) The Witch’’’’’s Master Grimoire
If you are new to Witchcraft and uncertain about which
method of divination to choose, start with the runes. They
are easy to make and convenient to use, and there is very
little left up to personal interpretation. Because of their size,
runes travel well. They can be read almost anywhere and in
any situation. Keep a set of runes in your purse, briefcase, or
school locker. Use your coffee break, lunch hour, or recess
time to consult them about the events of the day.
The best way to become proficient with the runes, or any
of the divination systems mentioned, is by using them on a
regular basis. Before you leave for work or start your day,
take a moment to consult your runes, cards, or tea leaves.
You don’t need to be in crisis to seek higher wisdom or spiri-
tual guidance. Use your divination skills to help set daily
and weekly goals or to indicate areas where personal progress
can be made. A simple question like “What should I work on
today?” will provide you with the motivation and direction
needed to live the magickal life.
(cid:1)178(cid:1)
S
S
(cid:1)
179
(cid:1)
S
HAMANISM
Shamanism is probably the oldest magickal system in the
world and probably comes from Siberia and Central Asia. Its
practices include the use of visions, altered states of con-
sciousness, and contact with nature gods and spirits. Evi-
dence of Shamanism can be seen almost everywhere; the
most often cited examples are found in the cave paintings in
southern France. These paintings date back to 35,000 B.C.
and depict men dressed in animal skins performing a hunt-
ing ritual. Through imitation and participation with the ani-
mals and the natural world, the Shaman obtained his or her
empowerment.
When our Paleolithic ancestors came to North America
from Siberia, they brought magickal practices with them. As
these groups sprea across the continent, different cultures,
folkways, and belief systems developed among the tribes.(cid:1) The Witch’’’’’s Master Grimoire
The practices and rites of the Shamans were geared to
the tribe’s cultural orientation. The Shaman of a hunting
tribe would usually work with the spirits of animals; the
Shaman of a tribe involved with agriculture would work with
the elements that supported a good harvest. All considered
the changing of the seasons as well as birth, death, mar-
riage, and puberty to be of importance and addressed these
occasions according to tribal custom.
Originally the Shaman was a member of the tribe, who,
through trance, journeyed to other worlds. While the
Shaman was in this altered state, he would commune with
spirits, gain wisdom, and acquire new methods of healing.
The prime purpose of the Shaman was to bring back infor-
mation from his journey to help guide and protect his people.
THE VISION QUEST
The Shaman is a trained individual who enters and leaves
states of consciousness at will. While in these states of
altered consciousness, he or she will journey to various
domains of the inner world. This journey that the Shaman
undertakes usually puts him or her in contact with spirits of
ancestors, totem animals, and higher plane teachers. The
purpose of the journey is to obtain power, knowledge, and
wisdom from the inner world contacts and bring it back to
the realm of reality.
Also included in the journey process is the custom of going
on a vision quest. In the traditional vision quest, the individual
is sent off into seclusion, without food, and with only a blan-
ket for warmth, to “catch a spirit.” During this time of separa-
tion from the world of reality, the person acquires his or her
guardian spirit and a portion of his or her medicine power.
(cid:1)180(cid:1)
S
MEDICINE POWER
The term medicine refers to an individual’s unique tal-
ents and skills and the ability to blend these skills or talents
with the forces of nature. When skills are combined with the
knowledge and wisdom gained from an inner world journey
or vision quest, they become the medicine power used to
heal and help others.
Places, personal objects, fetishes, and animals are also
considered to have medicine power. When the Shaman goes
into a trance, he or she searches for the special power of a
place, object, or spirit. Once the answer to the question, prob-
lem, or situation has been acquired, the Shaman will then
return to the world of reality, bringing the healing answer
with him or her.
CLEANSING AND SMUDGING
Before every ceremony or healing, the in-
dividuals participating should be cleansed of
bad feelings and negative vibrations that may
be attached to them. The cleansing is accom-
plished by passing smoke from burning herbs
over the body. The most commonly used herbs
are sage (to drive out unwanted spirits), cedar (to carry
prayers to the creator), and sweetgrass (to bring in good spir-
its and influences).
Another form of purification (considered to be the best)
is the sweat lodge. During the rite of the sweat lodge all the
powers of the universe—earth, water, fire, air, breath, and
sky—are called upon. The lodge is built from red willows
and covered with hides. In the center of the lodge is a pit
into which heated rocks, called the stone people, are placed.
As each stone is placed in the pit, it is named and receives a
(cid:1)
181(cid:1) The Witch’’’’’s Master Grimoire
force or power of nature. During the sweat lodge, the sacred
pipe and the smudge are used with prayers to cleanse and
purify those taking part in the ceremony.
THE SACRED PIPE
The sacred prayer pipe is the “tool
of tools,” the most powerful and most
cherished gift of Native American
tribes. The prayers and desires of the
tribe are carried to the Great Spirit and Sky Father on the
smoke from the pipe. The pipe is used in all Native Ameri-
can ceremonies and is considered to be the axis mundi, the
central point of time and space, the supreme support of all
things, and that which connects heaven and Earth. The pipe
acts as a traveling altar and becomes the center of focus for
all rituals or ceremonies.
The pipe’s bowl represents the Goddess and Earth
Mother aspect of the Great Spirit. The pipe’s stem is the
God and Sky Father part of the Great Spirit. When these two
elements are united for the purpose of sharing breath, they
create peace, harmony, and unity among those participating
in the ceremony.
THE MEDICINE WHEEL
The medicine wheel is a symbol of
the universe and represents completion.
It is a place where men and women learn
to sing the song of the world, become
whole again, and unite with the Earth
Mother and Sky Father. When properly
constructed, the medicine wheel becomes
(cid:1)182(cid:1)
S
transition, self-realization, and communication with the spir-
its of nature.
The wheel is constructed by clearing an area large enough
to accommodate the people using in it. A stone or stake driven
into the ground to symbolize the Great Spirit marks the cen-
ter of the wheel. Stakes or rocks painted in the correspond-
ing elemental colors mark the four cardinal points. Other
rocks, sticks, sacred objects, flowers, and feathers are used
to designate certain areas. Simple or elaborate, the medicine
wheel serves as a place for meditation, a symbol of the uni-
verse, or a circle of protection for sacred ceremonies.
THE GUARDIAN SPIRIT
The Shaman believes that everyone is born with a guard-
ian spirit. This belief is common among a lot of different
peoples, especially those practicing nature oriented religions.
During initiations, vision quests, and trances, the individual
is able to communicate with his or her guardian spirit.
In some societies it is believed that this guardian spirit is in
part related to the spirit of the individual, a sort of eternal
cosmic twin energy.
The totem spirit serves in different capacities. It can be a
badge or emblem of a tribe or clan, representing their prin-
cipal purpose or focus. The totem can also serve as a sacred
personal talisman chosen for symbolism pertinent to the
individual’s personality. In either case, it usually provides
protection, gives counsel during times of trouble, and when
properly appeased brings prosperity.
S
UN
Symbolically, the sun represents supreme masculine power,
omniscient divinity, heart of the cosmos, and splendor of the
universe. In most traditions the sun is the universal father,
(cid:1)
183(cid:1) The Witch’’’’’s Master Grimoire
with the moon as the mother. Constantly rising and setting,
the sun symbolizes both life and death, and the renewal of
life through death. The sun is the visible image of divine
goodness.
(cid:1)184(cid:1)
T
T
(cid:1)
185
(cid:1)
T
ALISMAN
According to MacGregor Mathers, ceremonial magician,
author, and founder of the Golden Dawn magickal order, a
talisman is “a magickal figure charged with the force it is
intended to represent,” and is usually constructed to attain
a particular result. When it is properly constructed, a
talisman’s effectiveness is obvious immediately, or at least
within seven days of its construction. Generally talismans
are employed for use in obtaining long-term goals. For ex-
ample, a talisman might be constructed to get a job promo-
tion, to induce love that will lead to marriage, or to create a
barrier of protection around a home or loved one.
The nice thing about a talisman is that once it has been
created and charged, it can be left to do its work; the energy
set up by the operator continues to work over a set period of
time. Talismans work like batteries and have the benefit of
being self-recharging to some extent (provided they’ve been
properly constructed). This recharging ability is due to the
relationship between the talisman and a corresponding sym-
bolic force.
Talismans play an important role in magick, because they
have the ability to summon and hold elemental energies and(cid:1) The Witch’’’’’s Master Grimoire
powers. Most importantly, they allow you to intensify and
extend your personal magnetism beyond the normal ranges.
This is made possible because of the occult symbolism that
is embodied within the talisman.
Ancient magickal seals, like those found in the Key of
Solomon, contain power that has been built up over hun-
dreds of years of use. The symbolism within these seals re-
flects the inner universe of human nature and provides a
means by which it can be manipulated and controlled.
Talismans have the ability to unlock the powers within
us and to provide access to the powers outside of us. As a
carefully crafted vehicle of magickal force, the talisman di-
rects energy toward a desired goal to help bring it into reality.
The most widely recognized seals or talismans come from
the Key of Solomon. They correspond to the seven major
planets and can be used alone or added to spells. Their pres-
ence within a magickal work aligns that work with the plan-
etary energy being represented.
TALISMAN SEALS FROM THE KEY OF SOLOMON
The first pentacle of the sun. The counte-
nance of El Shaddai, favored by those who
wish to obtain all things that they desire. In-
corporate this talisman into magical works
designed to bring success and prosperity.
The fourth pentacle of the sun. Designed to
enable the owner to see others as they really
are. When this seal is in the vicinity of a friend
or foe, their true thoughts will be revealed. It
also enables the owner to see spirits. Use to
uncover the truth in all situations.
(cid:1)186(cid:1)
T
The first pentacle of the moon. Said to call
forth the spirits of the moon to open all doors,
no matter how they may be fastened. Use this
talisman to help gain entrance into clubs,
sororities, and magical lodges. Can help with
intuition and psychic work.
The fourth pentacle of the moon. Will serve
to defend its owner from evil and from all
injury to the body or soul. It also gives the
knowledge and virtue of all herbs and stones
to whoever possesses it. Combine this talis-
man with a protection spell.
The first pentacle of Mars. Said to invoke
the powers of Mars for gaining courage,
enthusiasm, ambition, and all physical accom-
plishments. Use in personal power rituals to
boost strength, endurance, and magnetism.
The fourth pentacle of Mars. Use to bring
victory in war, to lend its power to bring vic-
tory over all enemies, and to vindicate its
owner in all situations. Combine this pentacle
with protection rituals and spells, as well as
those to overcome obstacles.
The third pentacle of Mercury. Is used to
influence the written word, tending to make
one eloquent in letters, papers, or any form
of writing. Because Mercury is the planet of
communication, this is a great talisman to use
when trying to sell your ideas to another by
way of the written word.
(cid:1)
187(cid:1) The Witch’’’’’s Master Grimoire
The fourth talisman of Mercury. Will help
its owner acquire knowledge and understand-
ing of all things. Can be used to penetrate hid-
den thoughts. A great talisman to use if you
are in school or studying for a test. Can also
help you learn what others may be thinking.
The fourth pentacle of Jupiter. Used to ac-
quire great wealth, riches, and honor. It should
be engraved on silver and used to enhance
prosperity and money-drawing rituals or spells.
Will bring honor as well as wealth to its owner.
The sixth pentacle of Jupiter. Will protect
its owner from all earthly dangers. By simply
regarding the talisman every day and repeat-
ing “ thou shalt never perish,” one is sur-
rounded by the protective force of the
talisman. Can be used in conjunction with
protection spells and rituals.
The second pentacle of Venus. Is used for
obtaining grave honor, and accomplishing all
desires in matters of the heart. This pentacle
belongs to Venus and will bring its owner
honor in all things, especially those which
involve love. Add this pentacle to love and
friendship spells.
(cid:1)188(cid:1)
T
The fourth pentacle of Venus. Has great
power and will to compel the spirits of Venus
to obey. When used with love spells, this talis-
man will force any person you wish to come to
you. Pentacle should be engraved on copper.
The second pentacle of Saturn. Of great
value when meeting with adversaries in busi-
ness. This talisman should be carried when
looking for work or when negotiating finan-
cial deals. Use in combination with the fourth
pentacle of Jupiter to protect monetary gain.
The fifth pentacle of Saturn. Defends those
who invoke the spirits of Saturn during the
night, chasing away bad spirits and guarding
treasure. It is a good talisman to use to protect
the home and all the items in it. Place on the
back of a mirror to reflect negative vibrations.
(For a comprehensive listing of all the planetary pentacles
and related talismans see The Key of Solomon The King (Clavicula
Salomonis), translated from ancient manuscripts in the British
Museum by S. Liddell MacGregor Mathers and then prepared for
publication under the editorship of L.W. de Laurence around 1900.
Since then, The Key of Solomon The King has been reprinted on a
regular basis by various British and American publishers. The most
recent issue comes from Samuel Weiser, Inc., 1974, with a forward by
Richard Cavendish.)
(cid:1)
189(cid:1) The Witch’’’’’s Master Grimoire
T G
RIPLE ODDESS
The triple Goddess can be found in almost all mytholo-
gies. She was at once virgin, mother, and crone; the waxing,
full, and waning moon. All that was feminine, enchanting,
ripe, and wise. One of the most popular triple goddesses
was the Greek Hecate, who reigned over heaven, earth, and
the underworld, where she controlled birth, life, and death.
To demonstrate her triple nature, Hecate carried three
magick symbols, the key, rope, and dagger. The key unlocked
the door to the underworld—opening the way to the myster-
ies and secrets of knowledge and the afterlife. The rope sym-
bolized the umbilical cord of rebirth and renewal—the
connection between humanity and the Goddess. The double
edged dagger symbolised her power to cut through delusion.
Hecate was the giver of visions, magick, and regenera-
tion, the guardian at the gates of the underworld. As a guard-
ian, she was associated with crossroads and the ability to see
beyond death. This is because when you stand at a cross-
roads, you can view the past from whence you came, as well
as the future, your destination.
INVOCATION OF HECATE
(To ask for Hecate’s blessing or help)
Items needed: One large black candle, censer, church
charcoal, Hecate incense (three oz. black incense base
mixed with one pinch patchouli leaves, one tsp.
granulated myrrh, three drops patchouli oil, and three
drops jasmine oil), black cloth, altar, chalice of red
wine, plate of moon cakes (sugar cookies cut into cres-
cent moons), piece of rope, old fashioned door key,
and your athame.
(cid:1)190(cid:1)
T
For optimum effectiveness, perform this invocation at a
crossroads and as near to midnight as possible. Before the
ritual inscribe your name and desire on the black candle.
Gather together all the items called for, along with some-
thing to serve as an altar, and proceed to the crossroads. Set
the altar on top of the crossroads, where all four paths meet.
Arrange the altar with the black candle in the center; the
athame front center, the rope right center, the key left center,
and the censer center back. Light the charcoal and some
incense. Take several deep breaths. Relax. Focus on your
desire. When you feel the time is right, light the black candle,
pick up the wine and hold it in offering as you invoke Hecate.
Thou who whispers, gentle and strong,
Thou for whom my soul doth long,
By most men you are seldom seen
You are the virgin, mother, and queen.
Through the veil you pass with pride,
I beckon thee now to be at my side,
Hecate.
Thou who knows, thou who conceals
Thou who gives birth, thou who feels,
For you are the Goddess and mother of all
Pray thee now— come as I call.
Now through the mist I hear your voice,
I invoke the gracious goddess by choice,
Hecate.
Thou who suffers as all men die
Doth with her victim in love lie.
You are the goddess and crone of despair
And with you our ending we must share.
I feel thy passion, I feel thy presence,
I rapture in your vital essence,
Hecate.
(cid:1)
191(cid:1) The Witch’’’’’s Master Grimoire
I pray thee dancer of eternal bliss,
Bestow upon me thy wondrous kiss,
Let now thy light, love, and power
Become as one with me this hour.
For you are the creatress of heaven and Earth
So to my dreams and wishes give birth,
Hecate.
Ask for your desire and Hecate’s blessing. Drink some of
the wine and eat one of the cakes in her honor. Allow the
candle to burn for one hour and then extinguish it. Leave a
libation of wine and the rest of the cakes on the crossroads.
Pack up all your magickal items and leave the area as you
found it.
(cid:1)192(cid:1)
U
U
(cid:1)
193
(cid:1)
U
NCROSSING
Uncrossing is used in Witchcraft and magick to remove
evil influences, negative spells, and black magick. For the
most part, an uncrossing ritual is done during the waning
moon or during the dark moon, the few hours before the
moon begins to wax. In some cases the energy will be sent
directly back to the individual who sent it in the first place.
However, sometimes this is not possible. If the identity of
the individual is not known, or if the exact specifications of
the original crossing ritual cannot be determined, then the
energy is magickally eliminated, usually by forcing it into a
proper receptacle that can be buried or burned.
UNCROSSING RITUAL
Items needed: One black candle, salt, fireproof pot,
black cord, and 150 proof alcohol or Florida water.
One hour before the moon begins to wax, when it’s at its
darkest, set your altar with the necessary items. Cast your
magick circle with the salt. Tie the black cord around the
waist of the person on whom a negative spell has been placed(cid:1) The Witch’’’’’s Master Grimoire
and stand them in the center of the circle. Light the black
candle and say with great force:
Fast as the wind, swift as the night,
Banish the evil with the light.
Seek thee out where ere thee be
And invoke the law of three.
Light the firepot. Then, as you would do with smudge,
stand arms’ length away and run the firepot up and down in
front of the person. Still holding the pot, walk three times
around the person, chanting:
I end your curses with power of thought,
All your works have come to naught.
Be gone, be gone, all evil rebound,
Then perish and fade into the ground.
As fire and flame, pure cleansing light
Banish forever [insert name]’s plight.
Place the firepot on the altar. Untie the black cord and
allow it to fall to the ground, still within the salt circle. Have
the person step out of the circle. Place the still burning firepot
on top of the spot were the person was standing. While the
pot burns, both chant:
Thou who caused this torment bad,
Shall live a life woeful and sad.
When the pot has completely burned out, extinguish the
candle. Dig a small hole in the center of the salt circle and
bury the cord and black candle. Cover with dirt. Pack up all
your tools, turn, and walk away. Do not look back.
(cid:1)194(cid:1)
U
U
NICORN
The Unicorn is a mythical beast with one
phallic horn on its forehead, a horselike body,
and a goat’s beard. It symbolizes the union of
opposites, undivided sovereign power, virgin-
ity, and love.
As a water conner, the horn of the unicorn can detect
poison in water and render it harmless. In Christian sym-
bolism, the horn of the unicorn denotes Christ and the
Father as one, and as an antidote to poison, it represents the
power of Christ to destroy sin.
Most Wiccans view the unicorn as a magickal beast that
has the power to enchant virgins and beautiful women. When
crushed and powdered, his horn makes a powerful aphrodi-
siac. It is believed that Morgan la Fey used the powder to
seduce King Arthur and bear his child.
UNICORN ENCHANTMENT
Items needed: One white candle, gold paint, fairy dust,
and a photograph of the person to be enchanted.
On one side of the candle, paint the silhouette of the
unicorn, and write the name of your beloved next to
it. Place the candle on top of the photograph and
light it. Sprinkle some of the fairy dust over the flame
and photo as you chant:
By unicorns, fairies, and mystical dust,
Now for me does [insert name] lust.
His [her] passion burns as does this fire
With aching torment and desire.
Allow the candle to burn out. Place the photo under your
pillow, sprinkle with fairy dust, and dream of your loved one.
He or she should be yours in seven days.
(cid:1)
195(cid:1) The Witch’’’’’s Master Grimoire
V
(cid:1)196
(cid:1)
V
ISUALIZATION
Creative visualization is a technique Witches and magi-
cians use to make their dreams come true. In essence, it is a
fancy name for the old children’s game of “let’s pretend.”
The idea is to create an image in your mind’s eye of some-
thing you desire. You then empower this image through con-
centrated meditation, forcing the image into reality. If you
want something bad enough and think about it hard enough,
it will happen.
The keys to making creative visualization work are best
expressed in the witch’s mystical triangle.
Belief
Desire Visualize(cid:1)
V
Belief: The number one key is the most important. The more
your believe in your goal or object of desire, the more likely
you are to achieve it. What you believe can happen, you can
make happen.
Desire: You must have a powerful desire. This means you
must be totally, passionately, and thoroughly engrossed with
your desire. It must be so strong that it will take precedence
over all other things. You must be obsessed with your goal
so as to stir the emotions into action.
Visualize: For creative visualization to work, you must be able
to create a clear mental picture of your desire. You must be
able to create in your mind’s eye an exact image of what you
want, as if you were looking at a photograph of it. To make
creative visualization work, you have to create a mental picture
so strong that the sheer power of your will forces it to manifest
The key to magick lies in your ability to visualize your
desire into reality. There can be no doubt, lack of desire, or
impotent emotion involved. Every ounce of energy and power
you have must be put into your visualization if you want it to
manifest. This means you must focus your attention and
psychic energy with laser-sharp accuracy toward the object
of your desire. Then you must believe that what you are do-
ing will really happen.
(cid:1)
197(cid:1) The Witch’’’’’s Master Grimoire
W
(cid:1)198
(cid:1)
W
AND
In practice, the wand is the primary working tool of the
Witch. It represents his or her rod of power and authority.
During ritual, the wand becomes an extension of the Witch’s
magickal jurisdiction. Personal power is forced through the
wand, with a laser-like intensity, toward a specific target. When
the psychic energy and target meet, activation occurs, and
the Witch’s intentions are set into motion.
The wand, like every magickal tool, has a distinctive char-
acter and represents a specific action, thought, or emotion.
In Witchcraft, the wand is associated with the element of
Air, which is symbolic of the mind, the intellect, and com-
munication. It provides the Witch with a means of channel-
ing abstract thought forms, as well as energy, onto the material
plane. Once the thought form takes shape and is energized,
it will become the medium to manifest desire.
The main reason the wand is so popular is its simplicity.
There is nothing complicated or difficult to understand about(cid:1)
W
its construction or purpose. The wand is simply a tool
for channeling energy from the spiritual plane to the
material plane.
A wand is very easy to make. A small branch with a crys-
tal or favorite rock attached, wrapped in leather, works nicely.
A simple copper tube with crystals, amethyst, or rose quartz
connected to the ends produces a wonderful energy con-
ductor. Brass tubing found in most craft shops has all sorts
of possibilities, and even wooden dowels from a lumber store
can, with some imagination, be turned into elegant wands.
My wand is made from copper tubing, is 11” long, and
has a rose quartz on one end and an amethyst on the other.
Connecting the ends is silver solder spiraled down the shaft.
On this there are four stones: garnet, rhodochrosite, gem
silica, and lapis. Because of the magickal properties associ-
ated with these particular gems, this combination helps to
balance power through self-love and spiritual insight.
WAND CONSECRATION
Items needed: One white candle, bowl of salt, bowl of
water, sandalwood incense, wand.
Perform this rite during the waxing moon. Light the
white candle and the sandalwood incense as you say:
Let now the powers of life and light
Bless and protect me on this night.
Pick up the wand and sprinkle it with salt, pass it through
the incense smoke and candle flame and then sprinkle with
water as you say:
(cid:1)
199(cid:1) The Witch’’’’’s Master Grimoire
Forces of good, of life and of light,
Descend into my wand this night
For this is a tool of my sacred art
So your powers I ask, now impart.
With the elements of Earth, Air, Fire, and Sea,
I now baptize, bless, and consecrate thee!
My will be done, So Mote It Be.
W
ATER
Water has long been seen as the source of all potentiali-
ties in existence. It is associated with the Great Mother, the
universal womb, birth, and fertility. Water is emblematic of
the life-giving and life-destroying capabilities of the cosmos.
As an element, it encourages moderation and cools anger
brought on by too much Fire. It also stabilizes the illusions
caused by an excess of Air.
WATER MAGICK
Water Condenser
A water condenser is a special, magickally charged,
potion. It is made from herbs, water, and alcohol, to which a
bit of gold or silver is added. The condenser helps to inten-
sify and store the powers from the herbs and metal for fu-
ture magickal use.
The water condenser are good for attracting love, friend-
ships, affection, good health and emotional stability.
(cid:1)200(cid:1)
W
Water Correspondence Chart
VALUES Emotion, intuition, devotion, mysticism
COLORS Green, turquoise
SYMBOLS Crescent, shells, boats, ship wheel,
anchor, cup
TOOLS Vessel, grail, chalice, cauldron
PLANTS Aloe, cucumber, dulse, gardenia, lily,
lotus, willow
STONES Aquamarine, chrysocolla, moonstone,
mother-of-pearl
PLACES Ocean, river, lakes, ponds, waterfalls,
beaches
ZODIAC Cancer, Scorpio, Pisces
ARCHANGEL Gabriel
TIMES Autumn, sunset
DIRECTIONS West
PROCESSES Love, nurture, sensitivity, psychic
ability, healing
Love Drawing Condenser
Items Needed: Small pot or cauldron, spring water, pink
or red rose petals, 8 oz. vodka, clear glass bowl, a
piece of silver, plastic wrap, ruby red bottle.
Pour the water into the pot and bring to a boil. Add a
handful of rose petals, cover the pot, and turn off the heat.
Allow the petals to steep for one hour. Add some vodka to
the mixture to preserve it.
When the mixture has cooled, pour it into a the bowl.
Place the piece of silver in the bottom of the bowl. Place
(cid:1)
201(cid:1) The Witch’’’’’s Master Grimoire
your hands over the bowl and infuse the condenser with
your thoughts and desires as you chant:
From Earth to Water and river to sea
The love I desire shall come unto me.
By power of herb and deep emotion,
Bring true love and deep devotion.
Cover the bowl with the plastic wrap and place it in
direct moonlight. Allow the condenser about an hour to
absorb the power from the moon. Store the condenser in the
ruby red bottle, along with the silver. Label and use in love-
drawing spells or to dress candles.
Water Wishing Spell
Items needed: One large white bowl, one blue glass
seven day candle, white flower petals, rosewater.
Place the candle in the center of the bowl. Fill the bowl
with water and add seven drops of rosewater and the flower
petals.
While stirring the water with your right index finger, speak
of your desire. Light the candle and say:
Water and Fire
Manifest my desire.
Leave the bowl until the candle has completely burned
out. Pour the water on a growing plant or in your garden.
Affirm once more your desire.
WATER INCENSE AND FRAGRANCE
Aloes Wood (love, strength): Burn aloes wood to attract love
and good fortune. Very high spiritual vibrations, will attract
love if carried or worn.
(cid:1)202(cid:1)
W
Cherry (love, divination): Mix one drop cherry oil with three
drops Orchid oil, and three drops violet oil, wear to attract
love. Add a tiny bit of cherry oil to vanilla and myrrh crys-
tals, burn during divination to reveal your true love.
Gardenia (love, peace, healing): Burn gardenia incense to create
a peaceful and loving atmosphere. Use gardenia petals to
attract good spirits and love.
Jasmine (love, money, prophetic dreams): Wear jasmine oil to
attract spiritual love. Mix three drops jasmine oil with san-
dalwood chips and frankincense and burn for prophetic
dreams.
Lilac (protection): Plant lilacs in window boxes or around the
outside of the house for protection. Mix lilac oil with sandal-
wood chips and burn for protection.
Rose (love, luck, psychic power): Bathe with rosewater to
attract love. String rose hips together to make a love-draw-
ing necklace. Rose petals sprinkled around the bedroom and
home will bring peace and harmony.
W B
ITCH OTTLE
The Witch bottle is most often used to protect personal
property and the home. It is easy to make and very effective.
All you need is a small glass jar with a tight fitting lid. You
then fill the jar with bits of broken glass, nails, thorns, steel
wool, nettles, vinegar, salt, and your own urine.
At midnight, during the waning of the moon, place the
bottle and a black candle on your altar. Light the black candle,
and completely cover the lid of the jar with the melted wax
to form a permanent seal. On top of the lid, inscribe a pen-
tagram into the wax. Hold both hands over the bottle and
speak the following incantation:
(cid:1)
203(cid:1) The Witch’’’’’s Master Grimoire
Candle of black in this dark hour
Grant to me the magick power
To reverse the flow of evil cast
And leave all sorrow in the past.
Allow the candle to burn out. Bury the jar near your
front door as a shield of protection. The Witch bottle should
be recharged every three months in order to retain its strength.
(cid:1)204(cid:1)
Letter
Y
(cid:1)
205
(cid:1)
Y
ARROW
Yarrow grows with a straight, angular stem bearing gray-
green, feathery, finely divided leaves. Referred to as “bad
man’s plaything,” yarrow is often the main ingredient in 17th
and 18th century love spells. Even today, the stalk of the
herb is still used by Chinese fortunetellers as an aid in con-
sulting the I Ching.
YARROW LOVE SPELL
To dream of the one you will love and marry, from a
church yard pluck a stalk of yarrow on the night of the full
moon saying:
Yarrow, sweet yarrow, that I have found,
With love I pluck thee from the ground.
As a man takes a woman sweet and dear
In my dreams this night let my true love appear.
Place the yarrow stalk under your pillow and you will
dream of the person you will marry.(cid:1) The Witch’’’’’s Master Grimoire
Z
(cid:1)206
(cid:1)
Z
ODIAC
The word zodiac is derived from the Greek zoidiakos, or
“figures of animals.” It resembles a circle that has been di-
vided into 12 sections of 30 degrees each and is traversed by
the sun, moon, and planets each year. Its 12 signs are named
after the adjacent constellations that form a great belt around
the earth. Each sign governs a month, represented by a sym-
bolic figure that is related to one of the four Elements and
human condition.
As the sun enters a sign, all persons born during that
period inherit or express the qualities and traits it represents.
The real significance of the zodiac concerns the process by
which primordial energy passes from the potential to the
virtual or from sprit to matter. When the sun, moon, and
planets pass through a sign they unify the energy of that
sign to complement the monthly period and complete a seg-
ment of yearly cycle.(cid:1)
Z
The Zodiac Wheel of The Year
THE TWELVE SIGNS OF THE ZODIAC
Aries
March 21 through April 19. Symbol:
ram; Element: Fire; Quality: cardinal;
Ruling planet: Mars; Metal: iron;
Gem: ruby or red jasper; Color: scarlet;
Plant: geranium or sage.
Like the Ram, Aries has a reputation for egotism, action,
self-assertion, and the desire to be first. Aries is a masculine
sign that is looking for identity. Aries can be fearless on the
outside and timid on the inside. The ram spontaneously falls
(cid:1)
207(cid:1) The Witch’’’’’s Master Grimoire
in love, but usually has a difficult time verbalizing his or her
feelings. Headstrong and aggressive, the Aries has tremen-
dous power and energy. Aries are leaders, entrepreneurs, and
adventurers, usually pushing the envelope in their direction.
Taurus
April 20 through May 19. Symbol:
bull; Element: Earth; Quality: fixed;
Ruling planet: Venus, Metal: copper;
Gem: topaz or emerald; Color: red
and orange; Plant: clover and mallow.
Taurus is stable, conservative, and practical, and values
the comfortable, unchanging way of life. Taurus is down
-to-Earth and one of the most productive signs, always
searching for the true value and meaning of life. Like a bull,
the Taurus usually remains passive and content, but when
angered will attack. Fidelity and consistency are the sign’s
virtues; obstinacy and refusal to change are its weaknesses.
Gemini
May 20 through June 20. Symbol:
twins; Element: Air; Quality:
mutable; Ruling planet: Mercury;
Metal: quicksilver; Gem: alexan-
drite; Color: orange; Plant: orchid
and gladiolus.
The search for variety is the trademark of the Gemini, who
is always thinking and looking. Maddeningly inconsistent;
Geminis can argue one point of view one day, and the com-
pletely opposite view the next. The symbol that represents
this sign embodies the essential split in its nature of always
(cid:1)208(cid:1)
Z
trying to view both sides of the coin at the same time. Geminis
are the true Jacks of all trades, but unfortunately if their tal-
ents are spread too thin, they may not realize their dreams.
Cancer
June 21 through July 22. Symbol: crab;
Element: Water; Quality: cardinal;
Ruling planet: moon; Metal: silver;
Gem: emerald or turquoise; Color: am-
ber; Plant: lotus or comfrey.
The crab, with its soft and fleshy body covered by a hard
and protective shell, depicts the nature of this sign. Cancer
is the embodiment of compassion, caring, and maternal in-
stincts, but it often hides these emotions behind a mask of
indifference. When upset, Cancers withdraw into their shells
but still have sharp pincers to attack with. Cancers are
renowned homemakers and require domestic stability for hap-
piness. As long as Cancers have a strong base from which to
operate and to which they can retreat, they will succeed and
reach their goals.
Leo
July 23 through August 21. Symbol:
lion; Element: Fire; Quality: fixed; Rul-
ing planet: sun; Metal: gold; Gem: opal
or zircon; Color: yellowish green;
Plant: sunflower or cyclamen.
Just like the king of the jungle, Leo is proud, ostenta-
tious, and the most egotistical of all the signs. It takes effort
for Leos not to cross the line and become excessively vain,
arrogant, and selfish. Leos live to make an impression and
(cid:1)
209(cid:1) The Witch’’’’’s Master Grimoire
need to have an audience. Leos can be difficult to love and
to work with, as they have very little sense of anyone but
themselves. If Leos can learn to accept responsibility, per-
sonal change, and the fact that others have feelings too, they
make energetic and fun companions. To thrive, the Leo needs
space and a spotlight.
Virgo
August 22 through September 22.
Symbol: virgin; Element: Earth;
Quality: mutable; Ruling planet:
Mercury; Metal: quicksilver; Gem:
diamond or chrysolite; Color: light green; Plant: snowdrop, lily,
and narcissus.
The Virgo is practical, productive, and prepared to sac-
rifice its own interests in order to complete its assigned tasks.
Virgos are always searching for something meaningful to do,
which is an open door for those who would take advantage
of their good nature and willingness to help. This sign is the
embodiment of service. However, they are often fussy and
obsessed with cleanliness and order to the point that they
lose their ability to be spontaneous. Virgos need to balance
out their perfectionism.
Libra
September 23 through October 22.
Symbol: scales; Element: Air;
Quality: cardinal; Ruling planet:
Venus; Metal: copper; Gem: jade; Color: emerald green; Plant:
aloe.
The scales are the key to understanding Libra, who is
constantly weighing the possibilities, and the choice at hand.
(cid:1)210(cid:1)
Z
Often crippled by indecision, in desperation the Libra will
resort to making a choice, any choice, even though it may
not be the best option. Ideally Libra’s function is to resolve
opposing possibilities by seeking a third way. Ruled by
Venus, the Libra likes things that are aesthetically pleasing,
charming, and artistic. Libras tend to hide personal flaws
they imagine might offend.. They are diplomats and like
peaceful, harmonious surroundings.
Scorpio
October 23 through November 21. Sym-
bol: scorpion; Element: Water; Quality:
fixed; Ruling planet: Mars (with Pluto
as a co-ruler); Metal: iron; Gem: carnelian; Color: greenish
blue; Plant: cactus, hound’s tongue.
The search for transformation is what motivates Scor-
pios. The intense emotions of this sign are toughened by
the influence of Mars, which gives it an obsessive, some-
times abusive, quality. Those born under this sign have a
keen sense for what is right and wrong. Scorpios are usually
fascinated with the dark, hidden side of things. They make
great Witches and magicians. The sign’s greatest strength is
commitment, the ability to see things through to the end.
Its greatest weakness is a reluctance to change or forgive.
Sagittarius
November 22 through December 21.
Symbol: archer; Element: Fire;
Quality: mutable; Ruling planet:
Jupiter; Metal: tin; Gem: sapphire;
Color: blue; Plant: rush and pimpernel.
(cid:1)
211(cid:1) The Witch’’’’’s Master Grimoire
Sagittarius is a deep, complicated sign, a mixture of
instinct and reason always searching for wisdom. The com-
bination of mutability and fire makes this sign unstable; its
plans are often dropped before completion. Often possessed
by wanderlust, idealism, and the search for truth, Sagittarius
needs freedom. The sign’s greatest strength is optimism and
enthusiasm, and its weakness is impracticality. However, when
their faith is strong, Sagittarians get along well with little
material success.
Capricorn
December 22 through January 20. Sym-
bol: goat; Element: Earth;, Quality: car-
dinal; Ruling planet: Saturn; Metal:
lead; Gem: black opal or tourmaline; Color: indigo; Plant: thistle.
The Capricorn is the ideal industrialist or merchant, let-
ting no humanitarian concerns interfere with important busi-
ness or money-making opportunities. Capricorns harbor
powerful emotions that as Earth signs they find difficult to
express. This sign can be very unimaginative, serious, and cau-
tious when drawn into the world of materialism. Capricorns’
greatest traits are their ability to heal and to have great visions.
Their greatest downfall is being manipulative and deceitful.
Aquarius
January 21 through February 19.
Symbol: water bearer; Element: Air;
Quality: fixed; Ruling Planet: Saturn
(with Uranus as co-ruler); Metal:
lead; Gem: lapis lazuli or aquamarine; Color: violet; Plant:
absinthe, fennel, and buttercup.
(cid:1)212(cid:1)
Z
The search for the Holy Grail defines the essence of
Aquarius. This enigmatic sign is ruled by two planets with
totally incompatible natures, one desiring order, the other
tearing it down. The contradictions in this sign’s character
are what makes it interesting. Aquarians are concerned, some-
times to the point of obsession, with being new, radical, and
different. They are often eccentric, frequently awkward, and
always demanding freedom. The Aquarian is best at devel-
oping new ideas but needs others to help carry them out.
Pisces
February 20 through March 20. Sym-
bol: two fishes; Element: Water; Qual-
ity: mutable; Ruling planet: Jupiter (with
Neptune as co-ruler); Metal: tin; Gem:
pearl or amethyst; Color: crimson; Plant: opium and birthwort.
Pisces is the most unworldly of all the signs. It leans
toward religion and mysticism and often withdraws from the
world. Emotional and sensitive, Pisceans tend to wear many
disguises to mask their vulnerability. Imaginative, artistic,
and self-sacrificing, Pisces will succeed on the stage or in
the church. Pisces’ strength lies in its ability to rise above
materialism; its weakness lies in handling the real world.
THE ZODIAC AND MAGICK
Knowledge is power, we all desire power over our own
lives. No one gets into magick to save the whales or the suf-
fering masses. You can join the peace corps to do that. You
get into magick to reclaim your personal power and hope-
fully gain some control over your life and future.
We all wear masks to hide our imagined flaws and
imperfections. So, if you know the birth signs of people you’re
(cid:1)
213(cid:1) The Witch’’’’’s Master Grimoire
dealing with, you have a better idea of discerning who they
really are, as opposed to the images they portray. By know-
ing something about the individual, you avoid doing things
that will offend him or her and thus create an uncomfort-
able situation. This type of knowledge can be of great magickal
value when beginning a long-term relationship, starting part-
nerships, getting your business proposal on the table, as well
as when you are just trying to appease your mother-in-law.
For example, to attract a Cancer (who basks in the light
of domesticity), you will need to avoid any type of sudden
movement that might infringe upon the home life. If you
are an Aries contemplating a long-term business partner-
ship, avoid the Leo—a space big enough for the two of you
does not exist. That Geminis looking for love should steer
clear of Libras, because by the time they get through analyz-
ing the situation, they will be too old to do anything about it.
And if your mother-in-law is a Scorpio, just agree with her.
Since we are all born under a specific Zodiacal sign, the
energies of that sign can be incorporated into magickal rites
and spells. If you are planning to do a love attraction spell,
consider incorporating the Zodiac symbols of the one you
desire into your rite. Use a Zodiac candle to represent your
boss in that promotional spell you are planning. And, just
before that big proposal, burn a Zodiac candle for each
person involved, as you visualize success.
(cid:1)214(cid:1)
Bibliography
B
IBLIOGRAPHY
(cid:1)
215
(cid:1)
Baer, Randall, and Vicki Baer. Windows of Light. San Fran-
cisco: Harper and Row, 1984.
Beyerl, Paul. Master Book of Herbalism. Custer, Wash.: Phoe-
nix Publishing, 1984.
Bias, Clifford. Ritual Book of Magic. York Beach, Maine: Samuel
Weiser, 1982.
Cunningham, Scott. The Complete Book of Incense, Oils, and
Brews. St. Paul: Llewellyn Publications, 1989.
Drury, Nevill. The Elements of Shamanism. Rockport, Mass.:
Element Books, 1989.
Eason, Cassandra. The Handbook of Ancient Wisdom. New
York: Sterling Publishing, 1997.
Goodwin, Joscelyn. Mystery Religions In The Ancient World.
San Francisco: Harper and Row, 1981.
Green, Marion. A Witch Alone. Wellingborough, England: The
Aquarian Press, 1991.(cid:1) The Witch’’’’’s Master Grimoire
Green, Marion. The Elements of Natural Magic England.
Rockport, Mass.: Element Books, 1992.
Heisler, Roger. Path To Power, It’s All In Your Mind. York Beach,
Maine: Samuel Weiser, 1990.
Huson, Paul. Mastering Witchcraft. New York: Perigree/G. P.
Putnam and Sons, 1970.
Katzeff, Paul. Full Moons. Secaucus, N.J.: Citadel Press, 1981.
Lewis, J. R., and E. D. Oliver. Angels A to Z. Detroit: Visible Ink
Press, 1996.
Liddell, S., and MacGregor Mathers. The Key of Solomon The
King. York Beach, Maine: Samuel Weiser, 1974.
Meyer, Marvin W. The Ancient Mysteries: A Source Book. San
Francisco: Harper and Row, 1987.
Sabrina, Lady. Cauldron of Transformation. St. Paul: Llewellyn
Publications, 1996.
Sabrina, Lady. Reclaiming The Power: The How and Why of
Practical Ritual Magic. St. Paul: Llewellyn Publications, 1992.
Skelton, Robin. Spell Craft. York Beach, Maine: Samuel Weiser,
1978.
Skelton, Robin. Talismanic Magic. York Beach, Maine: Samuel
Weiser, 1985.
Skelton, Robin. The Practice of Witchcraft Today. Secaucus,
N.J., Citadel Press, 1990.
Smith, Steven. Wylundt’s Book of Incense. York Beach, Maine:
Samuel Weiser, 1989.
(cid:1)216(cid:1)
Bibliography
Starhawk. The Spiral Dance. San Francisco: Harper and Row,
1979.
Valiente, Doreen. Witchcraft for Tomorrow. New York: St.
Martin’s Press, 1978.
(cid:1)
217(cid:1) The Witch’’’’’s Master Grimoire
(cid:1)218(cid:1)
Letter
A
BOUT THE
A
UTHOR
(cid:1)
219
(cid:1)
Lady Sabrina is an initiated priestess of the Wiccan reli-
gion and the founder of Our Lady of Enchantment, the larg-
est federally recognized Wiccan seminary in the United States.
During the last 20 years, Lady Sabrina has taught more than
25,000 students worldwide how to develop their personal
power through Witchcraft and magick. She has appeared on
major television shows and is the author of several books,
including Exploring Wicca (also from New Page Books), Se-
crets of Modern Witchcraft Revealed, and Reclaiming the Power.
Sabrina lives in New Hampshire with her three dogs, two cats,
and assorted fish. She enjoys crafts, gardening, antiquing,
and classic horror movies.
For more information about Our Lady of Enchantment
or to contact the author, write to:
Our Lady of Enchantment
P.O. Box 1366
Nashua, NH 03061
or visit: www.wiccaseminary.orgnazov knihy ==================The_Element_Encyclopedia_of_5000_Spells.pdf
16/901
love,whileSanskrithasmany,soEnglishhasbutoneword,
magic, to define its various aspects. Harry Houdini, Harry
Potter,HelenaBlavatsky,AleisterCrowley,andcountlessan-
onymousvillagewise-womenarealllumpedtogetherasmas-
ters of magic, as if it were a monolithic art.
English also lacks a specific word to name that power
that radiates from all life.
TheancientEgyptianscalleditheka;ontheothersideof
Africa,theYoruba,parentcultureofmyriadspiritualandma-
gical traditions, call it ashé. The most familiar word may be
the Polynesian mana. In Morocco, this radiant energy is
known as baraka. For lack of a better word, let’s just call it
magic power.
Thismagicpower,thiscapacityformagic,radiatesfrom
alllivingbeingstoagreaterorlesserextent.Infact,itisthe
existenceofthispowerthatdefineswhat,inmagicalterms,is
considered “alive,” a very different criterion than that re-
quiredbyacoroner’sreport.(Inmagicalterms,deathisnot
theabsenceoflife.Absenceofpowerequalsabsenceoflife.A
corpse,althoughnoonedeniesthepersonisdeadinthecon-
ventionalsense,isstillverymuchalive,asisthepineboxand,
most especially, the iron coffin nails. The average plastic
bottle,however,lackslife.Confused?Moreaboutthiscrucial
concept later.)
Thismagicallife-powerisformless:youcan’tseeit,hear
itortouchit.Sohowdoyouknowitexists?Howisitquanti-
fied and measured? By its effects upon you.
Baraka,theMoroccantermforthispower,containssig-
nificantimplications.Therootwordcanberecognizedinan-
other Semitic language, Hebrew, where it translates as
“blessing.” To be in the presence of this power is to receive
blessings.Althoughpeoplehavelearnedtomanipulatemagic
powers for malevolent purposes and ill intent, it is17/901
intrinsically a positive, benevolent, and sacred energy. Ac-
cordingtoanEgyptianlegend,havingcontemplatedcreation,
theCreatorforesawthatallwouldnotbegoodandfeltpangs
ofremorse.HethereforeimbuedEarthwithhekaasagiftto
people,sothattheymightuseittowardofftheharshblowsof
fate. Magic is the system that attempts to harness this energy.
Theclosestcomparisononemightmakeistoradioactive
energy. That, too, is formless, cannot be seen, touched, or
smelled.Yetitsimpactisprofoundandcannotbedenied.Be-
causenuclearradiationhashadsuchadevastatingimpacton
ourworld,it’sdifficulttorecallhowrecentadiscoveryittruly
is.MarieandPierreCurie,andtheotherearlyscholarsofra-
dioactiveenergy,werevisionaries.Theyrecognizedtheexist-
enceofsomethingthatothersdidnot.Noteveryonebelieved
in their theories, including many very educated people, in
muchthesamewaythatpeoplesaytheydon’tbelieveinma-
gic.ManythoughttheCuriesdeluded,crazyorjustincorrect,
atleastuntilthepowertheysoughthadbeenunleashedwith
too much force to ever be denied.
If one tells the story of Marie Curie’s quest in simple
terms, it resembles a modern-day fairy tale. Marie, laboring
obsessivelyinherlaboratory/shackresemblesthequintessen-
tialalchemistfeverishlyattemptingtoextractanddevelopthe
philosopher’sstone,thatlegendarysubstancereputedtobe-
stow eternal youth, health, and life.
Inasense,MarieCurieextractedtheanti-philosopher’s
stone. Modern fairy tales are sanitized for children; today’s
adultsareuncomfortabletransmittingthetruthscontainedin
them. Real fairy tales—the original versions—don’t always
havehappyendings,justlikethetaleofMarieCuriedoesn’t.
Marie’squestultimatelyledhertodeath;manyofhersurviv-
ingbooks,materials,andtoolsaresopackedwiththedeadly18/901
powerintowhichshetappedthateventodaytheyremaintoo
radioactive to handle.
Thegoalofmagicistotapintoadifferentenergy,anen-
ergy so powerful and benevolent that all aspects of life im-
prove. The most potent magical books, tools, and materials
(justlikethosebooksandpapersofMarieCurie)hold,retain,
and radiate their power and energy infinitely.
How do you measure exposure to nuclear radiation?
While scientific tools of measurement have been developed,
ultimate, undeniable proof comes in its effects on the body.
Similarscientifictoolstoquantify,measure,andidentifyma-
gicpowerhavenotbeeninvented,yet(tothemagicalpracti-
tioner) its effect upon the individual is equally clear. The
term,apersonofpower,ismeantliterally.Peoplewhopos-
sessmagicalpowerinsubstantialquantities,wholiveinclose
proximity to it, are magnetic and charismatic personalities.
Theyradiatepersonalpower.Otherpeoplefindmerelybeing
intheirpresenceinvigoratingandempowering.Althoughinto
everylifesomerainmustfall,forthepersonwithstrongre-
servesofmagicpower,theworldexistsasaplaceofpossibil-
ity.If,ontheotherhand,youfeelconsistentlydrainedorfrus-
trated,ifyourlibidoandlife-forcearechronicallydiminished,
ifyouforeseenothingaheadofyoubutmonotonyorgloom,if
lifelacksjoy,ifyourgoalsseemsooutofreachthatit’spoint-
less to try, and it’s hard to muster enthusiasm for anything,
thenit’sverylikelythatyousufferfromaseriousdeficiencyof
thislife-power.Mostofusfallsomewhereinthemiddle,al-
though these power reserves are continually shifting. Like a
gas tank, magical life-power needs to be replenished as you
use it, and acquired if you lack it.
Thispoweriscontagious.Itcanbetransferred,transmit-
ted,increased,decreased,orlost.Thesepower-exchangesoc-
cur continuously, with or without human participation. The19/901
poweriscontainedwithinabotanicalplantorcrystal,forin-
stance,whetherornotahumantapsintoit.Youcanignore
this power and these energy transactions, although their ef-
fectsuponyoucontinueandremain,forgoodorill.Youcan
alsoattempttoharnessthispowerforyourownbenefitand
the benefit of your loved ones.
Perhaps magic may best be understood by considering
oneofitsbranches:theschoolofmagicalarrangement,feng
shui.OnceobscureoutsideChina,theartoffengshuiisnow
discussed and debated worldwide; it has even grown suffi-
ciently commonplace to merit, for a time, a newspaper
columnintheSundayLosAngelesTimes’realestatesection!
(Although apparently there were enough complaints about
theintrusionofmagicintoreallifeforthecolumntoeventu-
ally disappear.)
Fengshui’sliteraltranslation,“windandwater,”implies
thatthisisanaturalart,notamanufacturedone.According
tofengshui,objectsaremanipulatedtocreategoodfortune,
minimize hardship, and (hopefully) eliminate disaster. Like-
wise, one must pay attention to natural earth formations
(mountains,valleys,waterways)inordertoharmonizeone’s
ownenergiesanddesireswiththemforyourmaximumbene-
fit.Thisconsciousmanipulationandharmonizingofenergies
andforcesisthebasisofallmagic.Bymanipulatingvarious
magical powers, goals are achieved, success attained, and
misfortuneprevented.Forinstance,thepresenceoflavender
theoretically empowers any other spell or materials.
Powderedvinca,thesorcerer’sviolet,transformsanybouquet
of flowers into a tool of seduction, although some flowers
(roses,orchids,tuberoses)arepowerfulenoughnottorequire
any assistance.
Of course, rationalists refute all of this as nonsense. It
can’t be proven scientifically—therefore it doesn’t exist.20/901
Magical practitioners are either gullible idiots or outright
charlatans.
The magical practitioners’ response to this criticism is
thatrationalistshaveinventedandareclingingtoaverylim-
ited notion of a world that really doesn’t exist. Practitioners
wouldsaythatscientificmethod,aswellasso-calledlogic,are
unrealistic, artificial humancreated constructs designed to
denyandplacelimitsonEarth’struemysteryandgrandeur.
Accordingtomagicaltheory,somesacredmysteriescannotbe
explained,defined,orcontrolled,althoughonecanattemptto
usethemforone’sbenefit.Ultimately,onecouldsay,magicis
anotherwayoflookingatandunderstandingtheworld.Ifyou
arenotyetinitiatedintothismagicalworld,thenbeprepared:
once you’ve learned some real magic and successfully cast
somespells,youwillseetheworldinadifferentwaythanyou
didbefore.Willyoutrustyourownexperiencesandinsights?
Orwillyoubeamongthemanywhosay,“Ican’tbelievewhat
just happened to me?”
Althoughmodernscienceisthechildofthemagicalarts,
most especially alchemy, its world vision and goals are dia-
metrically opposed to its parents’. To enter into the magical
worldistobeawilling,consciousparticipantinadreamland-
scape. One accesses power by surrendering control over
boundaries. The magical world is a huge, unruly, fluid,
dream-like place filled with invisible powers, psychic debris,
positiveandnegativeforces,guardianspirits,andradiantbe-
ingsexistingonallsortsofplanesofenergythatdefyhuman
definition,domination,andcontrol.Everythingpulsateswith
vibrant, potentially powerful life, including you.
Magicisapartnershipbetweenpowers,humanandoth-
erwise.Thequestionofwhethermagicisusedforgoodorill
depends upon the practitioner’s intentions, not the inherent
nature of the system. Every interaction is an energy21/901
transactionofsomekind,although,obviously,somearemore
significant than others.
Scientificmethoddemandsconsistent,predictablereplic-
ationofresults.Magicrevelsintheunique,theunusual,the
individual, and the exception. Magic refutes the entire
concept of coincidence. Anything that appears coincidental
possesses some magical significance; the more unusual and
freakish the coincidence, the more worthy of attention and
analysis.Anythingtooeasilyreplicatediseitheraverybasic
naturallaw(stickyourfingerintofireanditwillhurt)orelse
lacks power and is thus magically worthless (that lifeless
plastic bottle).
Confusionderivesfromalimitedwordpool,aswehave
seen.Identicalwordsareusedtoindicatedifferentmeanings.
Magic defies boundaries: life doesn’t terminate with death.
Deathisnottheend,norisittheoppositeoflife;it’smerely
anothermysteriousstoponthespectrumofexistence.Dead
asin“UncleJoeisdead,”maybemeantliterally,butlife,liv-
ing, or alive usually refer to something very different in
magic-speak.Lifeinmagicalparlanceisaquality,acapacity
forpower:someoneorsomethinghasit,invaryingquantities,
ortheydon’t.Ifsomethingisunique,notentirelypredictable
or reproducible, and also possesses potential for power, it’s
alive.
EverythingthatexistsnaturallyonEarthorisconstruc-
tedfromnaturallyoccurringpartspossessesthecapacityfor
power,includingyou.Thismagicpower,thisbaraka,iswhat
ultimatelyfuelsEarth.FansofPhilipPullman’sHisDarkMa-
terialstrilogymayrecognizeparallelstothosenovels’contro-
versial power,dust.Without it,existence isdrained, lifeless,
frustrating, joyless, and bereft.
This holistic power expresses itself on all planes simul-
taneously:physical,spiritual,mental,sexual,andemotional.22/901
Thispowerisnotgeneric.Everyplant,everystone,everyspe-
cies of living creature radiates a specific type of power, al-
though the most powerful are incredibly versatile. Roses se-
duce, but they also heal, comfort, and summon benevolent
spirits.Individualmembersofaspeciesradiatethesepowers
to varying degrees, depending upon circumstances and per-
sonal power.
That’salotofpowerstoremember.Luckilypractitioners
havebeencontributingtothemagicalrepertoireofmaterials,
the materia magica, since that old, proverbial time imme-
morial and continue to
• By magical definition, anything occur-
ring naturally on Earth, whether plant,
animal, element, stone, or metal, is
alive
• Anythingradiatinganydegreeofmagic-
al power whatsoever is perceived to be
alive, although the manner in which dif-
ferentbeingsarealiveisnotidentical.A
stone may be alive but even the most
hard-core practitioner won’t look for a
pulse
• If something can be recreated so that
there are identical, indistinguishable
specimens, and if that something is
completely predictable and controllable,
it lacks life. Lacking life, it contains no
power, no innate magic, and is of little
value to the magical practitioner23/901
doso.It’snotnecessarytore-inventthewheel,althoughex-
perimentation can be fun. A font of established information
exists for you to draw upon. The Element Encyclopedia of
1000 Spellsmerely scratches the surface of world magic.
What is Magic?
Magicisanindividualaction,undertakenbecausethecosmos
isnotbelievedtobebenevolentbynature,or,atleast,notbe-
nevolent enough to that person.
Maya Deren, Divine Horsemen: The Living Gods of Haiti,
London, 1953
Magicspellsstemfromtheobservationandconsiderationof
an Earthly paradox.
Earthisbeautiful,fullofpowerandpromise.Yetdespite
allthatpotentialforfulfillmentandhappiness,individualex-
istence is too often harsh, hungry, painful, limited, bitter,
dangerous,andjustplainmiserable.Yes,lifeholdspromise,
butwillyourpromisebefulfilled?Canyoudependuponbe-
nevolentforcesoftheuniversetoprovideyourneedsandde-
sires for you, or is further action required? It is significant
that Adam didn’t need a book of magic spells until he was
forced to leave the paradise of Eden.
Magicisarealisticart,notanidealisticone,althoughitis
agameforoptimists.Theonethingmagicrequiresisabelief
that thingscouldget better.
Noteverypromiseisfulfilled,noteverypowerisrealized.
Life is not fair. Some are born with looks, brains, talent, vi-
branthealth,alltheirlimbs,andalovingfamily,whileothers24/901
are not. Some have a head start toward success that others
lack,evenwithintherealmofmetaphysics.Somecomefrom
families immersed in magic traditions, eager to transmit
secrets and techniques. Others do not.
Occultknowledge,however,isegalitarian.Allyouhaveto
do is acquire it. In theory it’s not even necessary to under-
standitinordertotailoryourdestinymoretoyourliking,ful-
fillyourdreamsandaspirationsand,perhapsmostcrucially,
wardofflife’sharshblows,justliketheancientEgyptianssaid
you could.
Magic levels the playing field.
Magic encourages creativity and inventiveness. It re-
wardspersistenceandcuriosity.Peoplehavediscoveredthou-
sandsofwaystoexploitEarth’snaturalmagicpower.Thereis
basically no technique, no material, providing it possesses
some life (and, once upon a time, prior to mass industry,
therewasvirtuallynothingonEarththatdidn’tpossesslife),
that can’t be used for a magical purpose. Magic accesses a
huge repository—rock, paper, scissors, you name it, some-
where it has been used in a spell.
Wealthandstatusarenotnecessaryforacquiringmagic-
alpower;thecrucialrequirementsaredesire,will,curiosity,
awareness,knowledge,andeducation.Thatisthesecretmes-
sagehiddenwithintheCeltictaleofTaliesin.Apoor,beaten,
oppressed orphan child is forced to labor endlessly for the
great witch-goddess Cerridwen, stirring the fuming, boiling
cauldronwhereshebrewsapotioncapableoftransmittingall
Earth’swisdom.Byaccidentthechildtastesthebrewinten-
ded for Cerridwen’s own son. Those mere few drops of wis-
domimmediatelytransformamiserable,ignorantchildintoa
shape-shiftingmastershaman,apre-eminentwizard,andhis
ultimate25/901
• Magic is the manipulation of Earth’s
naturally occurring powers in an at-
tempt to provide the spell-caster with
the success and happiness she or he
desires
• Magic spells are deliberate, specific at-
tempts to harness and manipulate this
energy, following some sort of formula
or direction
• Magic power is inherent on Earth;
people didn’t create it, imagine it or
make it up. By various means, they
learned how to use it: magic spells are
the result
• Every magic spell was created by at
least one person and probably refined
and improved by thousands more
rebirthasatruechildofthegoddess,achildCerridwencan-
not deny. Who cares about transforming pumpkins into
coaches or pulling rabbits from hats? Real magic holds the
key to self-transformation.
Although rare, precious materials, gemstones, and fra-
granttreeresinsarepackedwithpower,there’salsotremend-
ous magic in blades of grass, handfuls of dirt, moonbeams,
and ocean water. Plenty of the most powerful magic is free,
available and abundant for all.26/901
Is Magic Evil? A (Very
Abridged) Secret
History of Magic
Anotherissuemustbeaddressed,asitistherationale most
frequentlyofferedforcenturiesofconcertedeffortstoelimin-
atemagicandpersecutepractitioners,andbecauseitisanis-
suethatpreventssomefromaccessingtheirpersonalpower.
Youthinkyou’dliketocastaspell,butyou’reafraid.Ispracti-
cing magic evil?
According to general worldwide metaphysical wisdom,
magicisasourceofpower.Powermaybeusedbenevolently
or selfishly, with varying degrees of mal intent. Thus it isn’t
theabstractpracticeofmagicthatiseithergoodorbad;it’s
what each practitioner chooses to do with it. Responsibility
forone’sactionsandtheconsequencesthatstemfromthem
restsecurelyontheindividualpractitioner’sshoulders.Have
evilpeopleeverabusedmagicpower?Sure.Justtakealookat
someofthehexesinthisbook.Ismagictheonlypowercap-
able of being abused? Of course not. How about financial
power,politicalpower,brutestrength,nuclearpower,andso
on and so forth? In the sweep of history, abuse of magic
powerisfarlessresponsiblefortheaccumulatedsufferingsof
the world than many other forms of abuse.
There is a general rule, accepted across the board, that
magicians reapwhattheysow.Castanevilspell—ultimately
receiveevilback.Negativeeffortsattractnegativereturns,ata
returnrateofthree-,seven-,ornine-fold.Thestandardruleof27/901
witchcraftisdowhatthouwill,butharmnone.Manymodern
witches are absolutely terrified of transgressing that rule.
So then, why magic’s bad reputation?
Yes, there are legends of wicked sorcerers using their
skillstoholdothersinthrall.However,ifoneexaminesthose
legendsclosely,it’susuallyrevealedthatthemagicalaspectis
but a smoke screen for more reliable, conventional methods
ofcoercion,likebruteforceandaccesstogreaterwealth,al-
though I suppose one could argue that magical prowess en-
abled their acquisition. Suffice it to say that any position of
power, in any profession, is vulnerable to corruption and
temptation. Let’s talk about the average working magical
practitioner.
Magicisconcernedwiththeimmediateneedsanddesires
ofthepractitionerinthehereandnow,oratleastintheim-
mediatelyforeseeablefuture.Itisnotabout“pieinthesky.”
Theaveragemagiciandoesn’twanttowaitforthepossiblere-
wardsofthesweethereafter.Magicisnotforthepassive;if
you’rewillingtopassivelyaccedetoyourfate,thedestinyoth-
ers decide for you, whatever it is, why waste time, effort, or
money casting a spell?
MagicrecognizesthatEarthisfullofgiftsandthepracti-
tionerwantshisorhersharenow.Magicisnotthesameas
religion, although many religions have historically incorpor-
ated magic into their practice, and still do. To put it mildly,
magicisnotaninherentlyreverentialsystem.Magicdemands
that my will be done, not necessarily thine, or at least, let’s
findacompromise.Itisnotahumbleart.Magicpossessesan
intensely powerful independent, egalitarian streak.
An infinite quantity of magic power exists in the world,
enoughforeveryone.It’snotlikeascarcecommodity,where
ifIhaveit,youdon’t.Magicpowerisconstantlybeinggener-
ated,althoughvariousmodernpractices,especiallythosethat28/901
affect the natural environment, have diminished present
quantitiesdrastically.SimilartoPullman’sHisDarkMateri-
als’dust,theenergythateachindividualgeneratesentersthe
universewhereitaffectsandmaybedrawnuponbyothers.It
is to everyone’s benefit (except perhaps for that elite few
alreadyachievingtheirheavenonEarthattheexpenseofoth-
ers) that every individual, creature, or thing, maximizes its
potential for power.
Furthermore, not all powers on Earth are positive: in-
tense extended misery, suffering, and oppression generate a
negativeenergythatultimatelyaffectseveryonebadly,dimin-
ishes baraka, obstructs magic power, and limits everyone’s
access to it. In addition, the extinction of Earth’s life
forms—thelossofplantandanimalspecies—eliminatesevery
practitioner’s potential access to their unique powers. Thus
generaloppressionandcertainpoliciesaffectingtheenviron-
ment, beyond any ethical considerations of right or wrong,
hamper the magician’s ability to maximize personal power
and the power of their spells.
Thereisaninherenttensionbetweentheindividualprac-
titionerseekingpower,andauthorityofallkinds,mostespe-
ciallyreligiousauthority,whichseekstomaintainitsauthor-
itybyretainingandcontrollingaccesstothedivine,aswellas
totools,theology,andritual.Religionfrequentlyseekstoes-
tablish rules and boundaries about who has direct access to
thedivine,andwhobestowsthataccessandtheproperchan-
nels. Correct methods of worship and spiritual communica-
tionareprescribed,includingwhatispermittedandwhatis
not.
Ifsomethinghaspower,magiciansusuallywanttotryit
out,regardlessofwhosetraditionorfaithitcomesfrom,re-
gardlessofwhethersomeauthoritysaysitsuseisforbidden.
Althoughmagicisaconservativeforceinways,harkingback29/901
tohumanity’smostprimalarts,italsoevolvesendlessly,ad-
apting new materials, new traditions and new methods as
they appear. It is fluid and defiant and resists control.
Fundamentalists of all kinds are inevitably opposed to
magic, but this tension exists even among liberal faiths that
prize their magical traditions—so-called magical religions.
Here, inevitably, religious tradition stipulates a right way to
practicemagic.Knowledgemaybereservedforthefew,with
methodsreservedforthosegoingthroughtheproper,author-
ized channels. Tension will exist between the officially initi-
ated and independent practitioners.
Thattensionbetweenauthorityandmagicalpractitioner
is,Isuspect,therealreasonwhysecularrulersandreligious
authorities (frequently in conjunction with each other) at-
tempttobrandmagicanditspractitionersasevilinfluences,a
canceramongthesubmissive.Lackofobedienceratherthan
lack of morality is what really draws down the wrath of
authority.
It is no accident that the Bible records that Israel’s di-
viners, shamans and necromancers were “put away” during
thereignofitsveryfirstking,Saul.WhentheprophetSamuel
warned the children of Israel that choosing a king would
meanlosingsons,daughters,land,andlivestock,heneglected
tomentionthattheywouldalsolosetheirpreviousaccessto
professional magical advice. Or perhaps he didn’t bother to
mentionitbecausehewasaware,asapparentlywastheking,
thatthosemagicalservicesaresocrucialthattheyarenever
entirely suppressed. In fact, King Saul himself is very soon
shown, in his hour of need, searching out one of those pre-
scribed, forbidden bone-conjurers for a private consultation.
BecausetheBiblehassooftenbeenusedasanexcuseto
persecuteandexterminatewitches,it’ssignificanttonotehow
the Bible depicts the Witch of Endor actually accomplishing30/901
hertask.She’snotpaintedasastrangerwithstrangetalents,
orasaforeigner,butasamemberofthecommunity.Neither
issheshowntobeafraud;shecapablyfulfillsherroyalcli-
ent’srequest.Norisshedepictedasmalevolentorevil,butas
a good-hearted woman: having accomplished the unhappy
taskthateveryfortune-tellerdreads,ofdeliveringreallybad
news, she comforts and feeds the distraught king, providing
hislastmealonEarth,atpersonalsacrifice(shekillsacalfto
feed him) considering that he is responsible for her loss of
profession and, presumably, income.
Fortune-tellers, readers, and diviners hold an especially
tenserelationshipwithpoliticalauthority.Historically,rulers,
particularlytheall-powerful,verymuchliketohavethefuture
revealed. They also typically wish to retain exclusive control
overthisinformation.Becauseothersmayuseadiviner’sskill
toplotrebellion,historically diviners havebeenimprisoned,
oroneisimprisonedfortheruler’sprivate’suse,whileothers
are killed. To make matters worse, rulers usually desire to
hear only the future as they envision it; a diviner can only
readwhatentrails,shoulderblades,orothertoolsreveal.You
seetheneedsometimestokeepyourpowersecret.Although
itfrustratesustoday,there’saverygoodreasonNostradamus
recorded his prophesies in code.
Wherevereffortshavebeenmadeeithertosubjugateor
convertanothercountryorpeople,amongthefirstactstradi-
tionally taken is the attempted subversion or elimination of
nativeshamansandtraditionalmagicalpracticesandpracti-
tioners.Thisisinevitablyperceivedasnecessaryforthepaci-
ficationofthemasses.Thisisnotpurelyparanoiaonthepart
of those seeking to assert and retain authority.
Traditional shamans and magical practitioners are con-
sistentlyintheforefrontofresistancetooppressiveauthority.
(Because winners write history, the conventional historical31/901
explanationforthisphenomenonisthatshamansattemptto
impede the “path of progress.”) In the British West Indies,
historicalrecordsshowthatObeahmenandwomen(thelocal
shamans)ledslaverevoltsorattemptedtodoso.TheHaitian
revolution,whichendedslaveryinthatFrenchcolonyandes-
tablishedthefirstindependentblackrepublicintheWestern
Hemisphere, was inaugurated at a Vodoun ceremony dedic-
atedtotheSpiritofIron,thematerial,withthesoleexception
of menstrual blood, singularly most charged with magical
power—although as soon as native dictators proceeded to
seize and consolidate power, not surprisingly, they too at-
tempted to restrict or eliminate Vodoun.
This,notevil,power-hungrysorcerers,isthehiddenhis-
toryofmagic.IntheUnitedStates,theprominentVoodooists
MarieLaveauandMaryEllenPleasantrescuedandredeemed
slaves,withPleasantprovidingfundingforJohnBrown’sraid
on Harper’s Ferry. (Their male counterpart, Dr. John
Montanet, was himself a freed slave, as was Pleasant.) Lest
you think that this association between magic and social
justiceislimitedtoAfricaninfluence,NativeAmericansham-
answere(andremain)intheforefrontofresistancetowhite
encroachment,andtraditionalpractitionersleddesperateres-
istancetoChristiandominationofEurope.Whoknowswhat
attemptstodefylimitationsonwomen’smagicalandspiritual
traditions were destroyed in the flames of the craze of
medievalwitch-burning?Virtuallyalltherecordsthatremain
are filtered through the eyes of the torturers.
Althoughmensuffertoo,societiesthatsuppressthema-
gicalartswill,asarule,alsolimitwomen’svoicesandpower,
often with terrible brutality. Significantly King Saul, in need
ofanecromancer,requestedthathisminionsfindhimacon-
juring woman. Although it’s since taken many twists and
turns,magicultimatelyderivesfromwomen’smysteriesand32/901
themysteriesofcreation,andthehistoryofmagic’ssuppres-
sion cannot be separated from the history of women’s
oppression.
Ismagicevil?Well,ifyourperceptionisthatsexisinher-
entlyevil,Creationinherentlytaintedwithsin,andthatwo-
menconstituteEarth’sweakestlink,thenIguessyou’dbetter
lump magic in there with the rest of these moral dilemmas.
Ifmagiccannotbeentirelydivorcedfromreligion,even
lesscanitbeseparatedfromherbalism,therootofalltradi-
tionalmedicinalsystems,systemsthatformillenniahavein-
vestigated botanical impact on health and (above all) on re-
production.Magicistheprimordialhumanartandscience.It
stemsfromaweinspiredbyallEarthlycreation,butespecially
themysteriesofhumancreation.Everynewhumanlifeisthe
ultimateactofmagic.Consciousattemptsatconceptionprob-
ablyconstitutethefirstmagicspells,especiallyifyouconsider
thatourremoteancestorsdidn’tunderstandpregnancyinthe
detached,technicalmannerthatwedotoday.Primordialreli-
gions venerated the divine in the form of human genitalia
withjoy,awe,andrespect,notprurience,recognizingtheirca-
pacity for sacred generation and creation.
Althoughthesesymbolsstillsurviveinisolatedpocketsof
officialreligion,magicremainssuffusedwithsexualimagery,
inwaysthatmaysurpriseustoday,ineffortstomaximizethe
blessingsinherentinthepowersofanatomy,bothmaleand
female.However,magicstemsfromfascination,onthepartof
bothwomenandmen,withwomen’smysteries:thecapacity
toproducelifewhereitdidn’texistbefore,magicbloodthat
flowsonschedulefromnowoundandthenismysteriouslyre-
tained, the links between that blood, fertility, women, the
moon, and the sea. These were and remain conduits to the
sacred for primordial magic and spirituality alike.33/901
Where Do Magic Spells
Come From?
Accordingtotheauthor,folklorist,andscholarofmagic,Zora
Neale Hurston, “magic is older than writing. So nobody
knowshowitstarted.”Verytrue,butwhatwedoknowisthat
magiccomesfromallovertheglobe.Thereisneitherapeople
noracultureonEarththatdidnotatonetimepossessama-
gicaltradition,whethertheyrecallittoday,orwhetherornot
theystilluseit.Someculturesandreligionsrevelintheirma-
gicaltraditions.Othersareashamedofthemordenythatthe
traditions everexisted. Some ethnic groups like topoint the
finger and suggest that magic comes from other people, not
them,ohno,never—anypracticesoftheirownareonlyisol-
atedbadhabitspickedupfromdisreputablemagicalwander-
ers or neighbors.
When a large cache of papyri from Alexandria in Egypt
wasfoundtobelargelydevotedtomagicspells,anthropolo-
gists,Egyptologists,andotherscholarsexulted.Notbecause
they were necessarily so interested in magic, although some
were, but because magic spells reveal a tremendous amount
aboutacultureanditscircumstances.Readbetweenthelines
of a spell and you will discover important details about
people’sexpectationsoflifeanddeath,theirdailyproblems,
thematerialsthattheycherish,theirspiritualoutlook.Forex-
ample,recentlypublishedbooksintendedfortheurbanma-
gical practitioner attempt to minimize or even eliminate the
needforbotanicals.Beyondtheirvaluetotheirintendedaudi-
ence,thesebooksalsotransmitacrucialmessagetoallofus
regardingthestateofourenvironment.Asanotherexample,34/901
only cultures that possess a belief in the possibility of legal
justice,howeverremote,producecourtcasespells.Lovespells
revealculturalsexualdynamics.Soyousee,magicspellshave
tremendousvalueashistory,anthropology,andsociologyway
beyond their practical value to the spell-caster.
TranslationsoftheseAlexandrianpapyri,nowknownas
the Magical Papyri, were eagerly awaited. Stemming mainly
from the second century BCE to the fifth century CE, they
spanacrucial,fascinatingperiodofhistory:thetimesofCleo-
patra,Jesus,theriseofRome,thefallofJerusalem,andthe
emergence of Christianity as a cohesive faith and world
power.
Alexandria,althoughitbecameEgypt’scapital,isnotan
ancient pharaonic city. It was founded by the Macedonian
conqueror, Alexander the Great, one of several cities he
namedinhisownhonor.ItsorientationistheMediterranean,
nottheNile,likeotherolderEgyptiancities.Atvariousperi-
ods, indigenous Egyptians were not even permitted to live
within Alexandria’s boundaries. It was a Greek outpost in
Egypt,withGreeksastheelitecitizenry.Cleopatra,descend-
antofoneofAlexandertheGreat’sgeneralsandthelastofher
dynasty,wastheonlyoneofherlineagewhotroubledtolearn
the Egyptian language.
Thecityachievedareputationasaworldcapitalofmagic.
Alexandria supported a sizeable population of magic practi-
tionersofallkinds—diviners,dreaminterpreters,professional
spell-casters—allpresumablyservingtheneedsoftheirspecif-
iccommunitiesratherthanAlexandriaasawhole,becauseAl-
exandriawasarigidlydividedcity.AlthoughAlexandria,like
many cities of its time, was divided into quarters, true divi-
sions,likemanyamoderncity,werecastalongethniclines.
Two of Alexandria’s quarters were Greek, one was Egyptian35/901
(the only area in which they were permitted to reside), and
the fourth housed a sizeable Jewish community.
Divisions between the quarters were distinct, reflecting
hostility between these communities, which periodically
bubbled over into rioting and violence. It was a turbulent,
volatilecity,demonstratingethnictensionsonlytoofamiliar
today. This may be ancient history but it’s a familiar land-
scape to many contemporary urban dwellers or anyone who
reads a current newspaper. It was precisely the city’s divi-
sions, its multi-ethnic population, and varied religious and
spiritual traditions (Alexandria was also the birthplace of
Gnosticism)thatsoexcitedthearcheologistsandscholars—it
provided the potential for something like historical “control
groups.”
Expectationwasthattheorientationofthepapyriwould
belargelyGreek.InAthens,therewasatendencytoassociate
magicwithout-of-towners—ThraciansorThessalians.Would
thispracticecontinue?WouldtherebecompletelyGreekma-
gic,orwouldtheAlexandrianstransfertheoutsiderroletothe
nativeEgyptians?WouldtheGreeks,traditionallyimpressed
by Egyptian mysticism (Pythagoras studied in Egypt) adopt
someoftheirhostcountry’spractices?Woulditbepossibleto
clearlytracetheemergenceofGnosticismaswellasPaganre-
actions to Christianity? Answers to these crucial questions
were anticipated with bated breath as translation of the pa-
pyri progressed.
Whatwasuncoveredisamess.Thespells,onthewhole,
areneitherclearlynorevenmostlyGreek,orEgyptian,orthat
third ethnic group, Judaic, but a scrambled jumble of all
three,withahealthydoseofPaganandChristianGnosticism,
together with a sprinkling of influences from other parts of
theGreekandRomanempires.Anyindividualspellmayin-
corporate the God of Israel, assorted angels, Egyptian gods,36/901
Mesopotamian gods, Greek gods, Nubian gods, Jesus Christ
andChristianspirituality,botanicalmagic,divination,names
ofmysteriousthingswehavenowayofpresentlyidentifying,
someoralloftheabove,anddefinitelynotnecessarilyinthat
order.
Whatwasapoorscholartodo?Howtointerpretandsort
this material, determine who wrote it, and to whom it truly
belongs and applies?
Noneoftheinformationinthepapyriismundaneevery-
daymaterialthatyoumightsayanyindividualonthestreet
wasboundtoknow.Thespellsandincantationsaretheheight
ofoccultknowledge.TheMagicalPapyriarethedescendants
ofhighlyguardedspiritualsecrets,theancestorsofhighritual
magic.Alexandriawasanintenselyurbancommunity.These
spellsdon’treflecttheknowledgecommontoanyvillagewise-
woman or cunning man but are highly detailed and special-
ized, occult in every sense, the stuff of initiates and adepts.
Whowrotethem?Theinformationcontainedinthemdefies
all attempts to pigeonhole these spells.
They derive from over centuries and so can’t be attrib-
uted to one person, not even the legendary Hermes Tris-
megistus.NothinginAlexandria’shistoryindicatesamingling
of cultures that would provide a general intercultural ex-
change like this—quite the opposite. Furthermore, although
GreekwasAlexandria’slinguafrancaandmanyJews,forin-
stance, spoke that language rather than their own, spiritual
secrets were still recorded in each community’s distinct
tongue. Sacred, secret, spiritual texts in each possible tradi-
tion were maintained in the most obscure version possible
specificallysothatprofaneeyescouldnotaccessthem.Egyp-
tian,Greek,andHebrewaren’tevenwrittenwiththesameal-
phabets. Who had access to all this vast information? How
was it transmitted?37/901
Intense debate ensued regarding who compiled these
spellsandwhoactuallycastthem.WeretheyGreeks,ashad
originally been anticipated, or were they Egyptians? Were
theyGreeksgonenative?Controlledattemptshadbeenmade
tocombineaspectsofGreekandEgyptianreligion,culminat-
ing in the cult of Serapis. But then, why the Jewish refer-
ences? Were they Egyptians striving to Hellenize? But then,
whytheChristianreferences?Maybethespellswerecompiled
byunemployedwizard-prieststryingtofindanewprofession-
alnichemarket,butthenwhydon’ttheyhewmorefaithfully
tocenturiesofconservativeEgyptiantradition?Theycouldn’t
beJews,because,ofcourse,Jewsaremonotheisticanddon’t
participateinthiskindofthing,butthen,ifnot,howdidthe
spell-casterslearnallthoseobscureHebrewnamesofpower,
names extremely difficult to access even within the Jewish
community?ButiftheywereJews,whatweretheydoingin-
vokingHecate,Hathor,andHermes?Theycouldn’tbeChris-
tiansbecauseChristiansforbademagicingeneral,becauseAl-
exandriawashometoaparticularlymilitantbranchofChris-
tianity and because the rift between Christians and Pagans
was especially violent and bitter in Alexandria. But if they
were not Christians, why all the references to Jesus Christ?
These mysteries were not the ones that scholars had so
eagerly anticipated investigating and debating.
TranslationoftheMagicalPapyrioccurredonlyrecently.
Perhapsmoreinformationwillbeuncovered.Volumeoneof
The Greek Magical Papyri in Translation Including the
DemoticSpellswasfirstpublishedin1986.Egyptologists,an-
thropologists,historians,linguists,andotherscholarscontin-
uetodiscusstheiroriginandbroadscope.Theonlyexperts,I
suspect,whohavenotbeenconsultedarecontemporaryurb-
anmagicalpractitioners,forwhomtheentangledethnicand38/901
spiritualrootsoftheMagicalPapyri’sspellswouldcomeasno
surprise.
WhenhistorianscountedAlexandria’sfourquarters,they
neglected a fifth community, who quite obviously rejected,
transcended,andignoredthoseboundaries:Alexandria’svast
community of magical practitioners, a quarter unto them-
selves. Where other residents of Alexandria found divisions,
these magical practitioners discovered a crossroads. Magic
thriveswhereroadsmeet.WhattheMagicalPapyrimanifest
is the birth of modern magic.
If you were an up-and-coming metaphysical seeker or
magical practitioner back then, Alexandria was the place to
go. Why? Not just to make money; you’d retain more of a
monopolybystayinghomeasabigfishinasmallpond.No,
you’dgotoAlexandriatomeetotherpractitioners,learnwhat
they had to teach and share some secrets of your own. The
spells of the Magical Papyri demonstrate what happens at
those crossroads.
Where others obeyed the rules and kept to their own
kind,magicalpractitionerswentwandering,withmagicasthe
lingua franca, the common tongue, exploring each other’s
secrets,deconstructingthemandputtingthembacktogether
in whole new confabulations. This mixing is not necessarily
aboutimprovement;spellsthathewfaithfullytoonetradition
work just as powerfully as blended spells. Instead it’s about
experimentationandthedesire(commontoallpractitioners),
toadapt something ofpowertoone’s ownneeds. (This pro-
cessisnotalwaysahappyone.Oneperson’ssharingisanoth-
erperson’sappropriation.TheEgyptians,forexample,were
appalledwhentheylearnedthatGreekshaddiscoveredaph-
rodisiac properties in their sacred temple incense,kyphi.)
Alexandriapresagedthemoderncity,filledwithimmig-
rantsfromEarth’sdifferentcorners.Previously,opportunities39/901
tomeetotherpractitionerswerelimited.Nearbypractitioners
probably came from your own family; everyone shared the
sameknowledgeandrepertoireoftoolsandmaterials.Sure,
therewastheoccasionalwanderingstranger,butnothinglike
thevastlandscapeofAlexandria,wherepractitionersfromso
manytraditionscouldsitandsharesecrets.Magic,backthen
as it does today, transcends and defies boundaries of lan-
guage, ethnicity, race, gender, or religion to form its own
community.
WhenIfirstreadtheMagicalPapyrimyimmediatereac-
tion was recognition: all those mixed-up, boundary-jumping
spellsresembled,innatureifnotinspecificdetail,thecultur-
allydiversemagicthatIlearnedinmyownhometown,that
crossroads of the modern world, New York City. New York,
likeAlexandria,hashaditsmomentsoftenseethnicdivision,
butyouwouldn’tknowitfromthemetaphysicalcommunity.
Fearingthelaw,fearingridicule,peoplemayholdthemselves
aloof, at least until genuine magical credentials, knowledge,
respect, and curiosity are demonstrated, but then the walls
come down.
One thing magical practitioners have in common all
aroundtheworldiscuriosity,thequestforknowledge.Weare
theoriginalenquiringmindswhowishtoknow.Obstaclesto
knowledge are bitterly resented and are persistently under-
mined.Magiciansalwayswishtoexpandtheirpower,andin-
creasetheirknowledgeandrepertoire.Thereisareasonthat
somanyoftheearliestbooksprintedweregrimoires,orbooks
ofmagic—thesamereasonthatLordThothispatronbothof
scribesandmagicians.Providingthatasocietyisatallliter-
ate, magical practitioners, on the whole, are great readers,
fromancientEgypt’sHousesofLifetotheVoodooqueensof
New Orleans.40/901
Thereisonlyonethingbetterthanlearningfromabook
andthat’slearningfromeachother.Magicalpractitionersare,
in general, an open-minded bunch. Put a few in a room to-
gether and fairly quickly tools will be compared, secrets
shared, and demands for knowledge made.
Spells are constantly evolving to suit changing needs.
Thisisparticularlytruewherecultureslivecloselyalongside
eachother.Nothingcrossesbordersfasterthanamagicspell.
For instance it can be almost impossible to separate totally
theintermingled strands ofvarious European magical tradi-
tions.Becausecertainmethods,materials,andstylesaremore
popularandprevalentinoneareathananotherdoesn’tneces-
sarilymeanthattheyoriginatedthereor,atleast,notinisola-
tion.Eventhemostsedentary,isolatedcommunitiesreceived
periodic magical cross-pollination from Jews, Romany,
tinkers, and assorted wanderers.
Theseentwinedtraditionsbecomeevenmorecomplexin
the magical and spiritual traditions of America and the
Western Hemisphere.
DuringtheheightoftheAfricanslavetrade,peoplewere
kidnappedfromalloverAfrica.Whatwereoriginallydistinct
cultures, each with specific spiritual and magical traditions,
foundthemselvesthrowntogetherindirecircumstances,the
type of circumstances in which many reach for magic. In
Haiti,thetraditionsoftheFonpeopleofDahomeyweredom-
inant and evolved into Vodoun, although not in isolation.
These traditions evolved, adding components of indigenous
Taino magic, diverse other African traditions, French, and
Spanishmagic,thusalsotransmittingBasque,Jewish,Moor-
ish, and Romany influences and, last but not least, Freema-
sonry. You think this is beginning to make Alexandria look
simple? Just wait.41/901
Following later political turbulence, many Haitian
refugees fled to New Orleans, where Vodoun evolved once
more,retainingitsframebutpickingupnewinfluences,this
time from the local black population, whose own magic de-
rivedfromCongolesesourcesratherthanFon,andalsoBrit-
ish,Italian,andNativeAmericanmagicaltraditions.NewOr-
leans, the Crescent City, became known as the capital of
American magic. Its traditions would soon be incorporated
intowhatmightbecalledmainstreammagic,thatmagicmost
accessibletothepopulationatlarge.Thismagicwouldeven-
tuallybetransmittedtoEuropewhere,whoknows?Maybeit’s
nowbeenpickedupbyAfricanemigrantstoevolveandtrans-
form once more.
Afterextendedcontact,NewOrleansVoodoocanbehard
to distinguish from Hoodoo. Hoodoo’s basic framework also
derives from Africa, mainly from Congolese traditions, but
againnotinisolation.Deprivedofthebotanicalswithwhich
they had been familiar in Africa, their materia magica, en-
slaved African magical practitioners consulted with Native
Americans and acquired a whole new botanical tradition,
sharing magical and spiritual secrets as well. These Hoodoo
doctors typify the proverbial questing, intellectually curious
magician.InadditiontoNativeAmerican,WestandCentral
Africanroots,theirtraditionsoonincorporatedEuropeanfolk
magic, the Egyptian mysteries, Freemasonry, and Kabbalah.
Thegreatgrimoiresbecameavailabletoall.Transmissionwas
cross-cultural. With the exception of a very few isolated
mountain pockets, American magic in general demonstrates
tremendous African influence.
Furthernorth,Pow-WowisthemagicofGermanimmig-
rantstoPennsylvania,thePennsylvaniaDutch(acorruption
of Deutsch). The basic framework is, of course, the German
magic the migrants carried with them, both high ritual and42/901
folkmagic,whichincorporatedahealthydoseofJewishand
RomanyinfluencesaswellasthoseofneighboringEuropean
people. In America, strong further influence (and the tradi-
tion’s name) came from Native Americans, especially the
Iroquois,andfromtheChikkeners,theso-calledBlackDutch:
Romany(Zigeuners)forciblydeportedfromEuropewho,sep-
aratedfromclanandfamily,founddiscreetsafetyamongthe
Pow-Wow artists.
In1819or1820,datesvary,Pow-Wowartistandhexen-
meisterJohnGeorgeHohmancompiledacanonofPow-Wow
wisdom and published it under the title The Book of Pow-
Wows: The Long Lost Friend. This book, still in print,
traveled to the cities of the South, carried largely by Jewish
merchants,whosoldittoVoodooandHoodoopractitioners,
whoincorporateditintotheiralreadymulti-culturalblendof
magicand,nodoubt,sentsomeequallyvaluableinformation
up North with the returning merchants, who were learning
from everybody and spreading the news.
There is an important exception to this magic melting
pot,ofcourse.Veryisolatedareas,placeswherepeoplehave
historicallyhadlittleornocontactwithothers,maintainex-
tremely pristine, ancient magical traditions. Like the unique
creaturesoftheGalapagosIslands,theirtraditionsdeveloped
inisolationandthusmayhaveveryunique,easilyidentifiable
characteristics.It’smucheasiertoclearlyidentifyaspellfrom
Papua New Guinea, for instance, than it is to distinguish
betweenFrench,German,orSwissspells.Becausethesetra-
ditionsaresouniqueandbecauseonecanidentifythespell’s
origins,it’sverytemptingtoconstantlypointoutwhichspell
camefromwhichisolatedculture.Thedangeristhatthiscre-
atesalopsidedeffect,akintothoseold-schoolanthropologists
whoweresoquicktonotethecurioushabitsofthe“Natives”43/901
whilefailingtoremarkonsimilarpractices,parallels,andtra-
ditions back home.
Ican’temphasizemorethateverydistinctpeople,every
culture, every nation, every religion and spiritual tradition
has,atonetimeoranother,incorporated,developed,andcre-
atedmagicspells.Eachoneofushasamagicalhistorysome-
where along the line. Loss and abandonment of these tradi-
tions tends to accompany loss of cultural or religious
autonomy.Thesespells,therefore,areoursharedhumanher-
itage,notisolatedoddthingsengagedinonlybystrangeother
people, very different from us.
In some cases, in this book, I have pointed out where
spells come from and which traditions they represent, espe-
ciallyifthere’ssomeinterestingfactoidassociatedwithitorif
thatknowledgemayhelpyoucastthespell,orsometimesjust
togive credit where credit isdueforaparticularly beautiful
spell.However,Ihavenotdonesoineverycase.SometimesI
didnotwishtokeepemphasizingoneculture,asiftheywere
Earth’s only magical ones, especially those cultures whose
vastmagicalrepertoirehasstimulatedotherstovilify,stereo-
type,andpersecutethem.Inothercases,therootsweretoo
tangled to identify their origins honestly.
Although many of the spells in this book are meant for
use, others are included purely for historic value and per-
spective, so that we may remember and learn from them.
Magic Today
These are both the best and the worst of times for magic.44/901
Ononehand,thereiscurrentlylesspersecutionofmagic-
al practitioners in more parts of the world than at any time
sincetheriseofChristianity.Thisverybookthatyouholdin
your hands would once upon a time have earned reader,
writer, publisher, and bookseller alike a slow and painful
death.
Materials, once rare, craved, hoarded, and often forbid-
denareavailableandaffordabletomorepeoplethaneverbe-
fore. Think about that the next time you sip some mugwort
tea,anherbthatmighthavebrandedyouawitchjustafew
centuries ago. Frankincense and myrrh, once the most pre-
cious expensive commodities on Earth, may now be pur-
chased in any well-stocked health food store. Salt, packed
with magic power, once extracted from Earth and sea with
terrible human effort, once very expensive and precious, is
nowsocheapandcommonthateveryfast-foodvendorgives
away free packets by the handful.
Although fewer people have private gardens, there is
greateraccessthaneverbeforetothebotanicalmaterialthat
constitutesthefoundationofmagic.Somespellsinthisbook
refertowhatmayseemtobeveryobscureitemsandplants:
virtuallynothingisunattainable,however.Onceuponatime,
a practitioner was limited to local botanicals. Now you can
importlivingaswellasdriedplantsfromvirtuallyanywhere
ontheglobeforyourprivateuse.Doyouwanttoaccessthe
powerofPeruvianshamanicplants?GoontheInternet;you’ll
beabletobuysome.Wherebotanicalmaterialisn’tpractical,
modernessentialoilsandfloweressenceremediesreproduce
alchemical methods to bring you the power of even more
flowers,availableinasimple,easy-to-store,user-friendly,in-
expensive form.
Practitionersareunafraidtoteachandtoshareinforma-
tion. I remember when booksellers didn’t generally stock45/901
spell-books. Now you can buy them everywhere. Classes are
advertisedinnewspapers.Youdon’thavetobeamemberof
aninnercircletodiscovermetaphysicalcompanions.There’s
littleneedtohideinbackrooms,fearingarrestorworse,asin
previous days. In industrialized nations there is new-found
appreciation for magical wisdom and traditions.
Yetit’salsotheworstoftimesinotherareas—ironically,
inthoseisolatedcommunitieswheremagicalknowledgewas
preservedinsuchpurityforsolong.ManyofEarth’ssurviv-
ing magical traditions are vanishing as quickly as the rain-
forest, coral reefs, or any other endangered species.
Whilesomere-embraceamagicalheritagerejectedforso
long, traditional practitioners who’ve maintained those spir-
itualtraditionsformillennialacksimilarprivilegesandpro-
tection.LikethosevulnerablecreaturesoftheGalapagos,hav-
ingneverbeforemetattemptsatsuppression,theymaynever
havedevelopedtheskillsofsubterfugedevelopedovergener-
ations among other more frequently oppressed people.
As rainforests are cut down, as ancestral lands are an-
nexed,traditionalpractitionersandshamanshavelessaccess
tothebotanicalstheydependuponthaneverbefore.Instead
ofopen-minded,questingfellowmagicalpractitioners,eager
tolearnandshareknowledge,theonlyoutsidersthesetradi-
tional practitioners are likely to meet are those who under-
minetheirmagicaltraditions,andpressurethemtoabandon
their own faiths and convert to others.
Everyday,somewhereonEarth,atraditionalpractitioner
ispressuredtoabandonshamanism,divination,orsomevari-
ant of the magical arts. Sometimes suppression is violent.
Tools are destroyed, modes of transmission suppressed.
Shamans and leaders of magic are isolated from their com-
munities,orastheBiblesoeloquentlysays,“putaway.”The
stimulustorejectoldmagicaltraditionsmayalsocomefrom46/901
within,fromaculture’sdesireformodernity,toappearcivil-
izedandrational.Inothercasesmagicandtraditionalknow-
ledge are victims of war and political unrest.
It is ironic to observe precisely which information ap-
pearstobevanishingversuswhatappearstobepreservedfor
posterity. Once upon a time, very recently, Western magical
adepts and elite scholars of magic alike favored the remote
“pure” traditions of the Himalaya and Indonesia. Scholars
andadeptsjourneyedwithtremendouspersonalefforttothe
farcornersoftheEarthtomeetwithAscendedMasterswhile
simultaneously scorning magical traditions found closer to
home as superstitious nonsense.
Todayitisthosepreviouslyrespectedtraditionsthatare
rapidlybeingerodedandarevanishingforahostofreligious,
political, and environmental reasons. Closer to home, Celtic
traditions,oncereviledasfoolishness,havebeenrevivedand
energizedbyamassivenumberofnewpractitioners.TheRo-
manypeople,terriblypersecutedforcenturies,scornedsome-
times precisely because of their magical traditions, have
recently re-asserted control over those traditions and how
they are to be perceived. Hoodoo, once beheld by both aca-
demiciansandeliteoccultistswithparticularscorn,largelyfor
race-based reasons, appears to have its survival assured,
thankstothededicatedeffortsofitsownscholars,ZoraNeale
Hurston, Harry Middleton Hyatt, and Catherine Yronwode.
SilverRavenWolf,modernchroniclerofPow-Wow,once
dismissed as ignorant folk-practices that were unworthy of
scholarly interest, writes of scouring Pennsylvanian nursing
homes, looking for old people with snippets of information
thatshemaythenpreserveandshare.Perhapsotherswillful-
fill this role for other genres of magic in other parts of the
world.Ittakesonlyonegenerationforinformationtobelost
forever. How many traditions, how much hard-won human47/901
experience and accumulated wisdom from every inhabited
continent,havealreadybeenlost?Thisbigbookthatyouhold
inyourhandisbutatinyportionofEarth’smagicalwisdom.
Inkeepingwiththeinquiring,questingspiritofmagicalprac-
titionersthroughouttheages,don’tbetoorespectfulwiththe
spellsinthisbook.Ifyoufindsomethingthatsuitsyouorin-
triguesyou,useit.Ifsomethingisn’tquiteright,playwithit.
Tapintoyourownmagicpowersandcontinuetheevolution
of our magic repertoire.Elements of
Magic Spells
How do you cast a magic spell? Do you shout ab-
racadabra, turn around three times on one foot and shoot
sparksfromyourwand?Ordoyoustandwithinacircleof
litcandles,magicswordattheready,attemptingtoreadun-
known,unpronounceablewordsfromadustygrimoire?Will
youtuckonesinglecrumbofbread,onesinglegrainofsalt,
andsomeburned-outcharcoalintoascrapofredfabric,and
then make knots in the cloth as if your very life depended
upon it? Perhaps you will stand at the crossroads and
just…stand?
Magic spells come in virtually unlimited form, some
dramatic, some shocking, and some perhaps surprisingly
mundane. Definitions of exactly what constitutes a magic
spell depend a lot upon one’s personal history and experi-
ence,thestoriesyouwereorweren’ttoldasachild,andcul-
tural expectations. What separates a magic spell from just
anyrandomseriesofactionsisyou,yourintent,goals,and
desires.
Amagicspellisaconsciousformalizedattempttoma-
nipulatemagicpowerandenergy(heka)inordertoachieve
your own personal goal.
Therearemanystylesofspells,featuringallsortsofin-
gredients.Ifonestyleofspelldoesn’tsuityou,thereareoth-
ers. Afraid of fire? Cast your spell by creating enchanted
baths.Don’thaveatub?Brewpotionsortiemagicalknots.If49/901
oneingredientisunobtainable,therearesubstitutes.Ifyou
can’t afford precious gems and resins, there are plenty of
powerful magical materials masquerading as common kit-
chen ingredients. Magical energy is irrepressible; magic
spells are the controlled conduit for directing this magical
energy. There is only one component of every magic spell
thatyoucastthatcannotbereplacedandthatisYOU.Yours
istheuniquebinding energy thatprovides thesparkoflife
which transforms actions, words, and thoughts into magic
spells.
Everyone’s secret desire, of course, is to possess en-
chanted words or objects that achieve our goals for us
withoutevenourslightesteffort.Justsay“hocuspocus!”and
poof! Your boring date is instantly transformed into Mr.
Right.Thereisagrainoftruthinthisfantasy:themostma-
gicallychargedobjectswillperformalotoftheworkforus,
althoughmagicspellsarenevercompletelyeffortless.Some
naturallyoccurringitemsinherentlypossessthistypeofma-
gic power (iron, menstrual blood, salt, certain botanical
plants);inothercases,someextremelyintensivespell-cast-
ing is required in order to craft a tool of requisite intense
magical power (a magic wand, sword, or mirror).
Magicspellstakemanyforms,availthemselvesofmany
powers,anddependuponvariouselements,tools,andcom-
ponents.Someoftheseelements,tools,andcomponentsoc-
cur naturally on Earth, while others are crafted by people.
Sometimestheseelementsandcomponentscanbeputneatly
intocategoriesandsometimes,magicbeingtheunruly,dis-
obedientforcethatitis,theyoverlapandmergeinasurreal
dream-like manner.
Some spells are object-driven; others are dependent
upon the power of words. Some require dozens of unusual
plants and minerals, while other spells, which rank among50/901
themostdifficulttocastbecauseyoumustdoalltheenergy
transformation independently, require nothing more than
the force of your personal will. Some spells walk a razor’s
edgebetweenreligionandmagicontheonehand,andtradi-
tionalhealingandmagicontheother.Partlythisisbecause
of magic’s tendency to appropriate any object, system, or
method that demonstrates potential for power, and partly
thisisbecause,onceuponatime,distinctionsbetweenvari-
ous arts and sciences weren’t drawn as rigidly as they are
today.Awarenessofmagicpowerandthedesiretouseitfor
one’s own benefit is the primordial human art and science.
Religion, traditional medicine, astrology, alchemy, aroma-
therapy,perfumery,music,dance,visualart,andmoreare
all rooted in magic and shamanism.
Before any spell is cast, the initial requirement is that
you have a personal goal. What do you want to achieve?
Whatdoyouwishtoprevent?Whatareyoursecretdesires,
yourdeepestfears?Magicspellsarealwayscastforapur-
pose,evenifit’sagenericonelike“personalhappiness,”the
proverbial“peaceonEarth,”orobtainingvague“goodfor-
tune.”Themorespecificyourdesire,themoreclearlyarticu-
latedyourvision,thedeeperyourpassion,themorelikelyit
isthatyourspellwillwork.Thereisnotonetypeofspellthat
is inherently more powerful than another; there are only
spellsandstylesofspell-castingthataremoreeffectivefora
specific individual. Part of the fun and challenge of spell-
casting is finding the spells that best suit you.
In this section we will examine various styles of spell-
casting,thevariouselementsofmagic,andthetoolsandin-
gredients required to cast spells.Spell-casting
Spell-casting Using the
Power of Animals
Spellsarecastusingthepowerofanimalalliesandfamiliars.
Animalallies,familiars,andthemagicpowerinherentinspe-
cific animal species can help you achieve your spell’s goals.
Noticethattheabovesentencereads“powerofanimals”
not “parts of animals.” If this book included spells utilizing
anatomicalpartsofanimals,itcouldeasilyhavebeencalled
TheElementEncyclopediaof10,000Spells.It’snotnecessary
topointanyfingers;moreculturesthannothaveengagedin
thispractice.It’snotnecessarytodiscusswhetherthosespells
everworkedornot,either.Iftheydidwork,wouldthatmake
them acceptable today? That discussion veers dangerously
closetotheopinionfrequentlyexpressedabouthowtragicit
isthattigersmaysoonbeextinctinthewildbecausepoachers
kill them for medicines and aphrodisiacs that don’t work. If
themedicinesdidwork,wouldthesituationbeanylesstra-
gic?Whetherthoseoldspellseverworkedornot,wenowlive
inanerawherethebalanceofnatureisterriblytipped.Those
spells are no longer viable. Because spells that rely on any
part of an animal, physical or otherwise, are ultimately de-
pendent upon the good-will of its presiding Animal Spirit,
thoseoldanatomy-dependentspellswillnolongerworkforus
and may even backfire onthespell-caster. Magic is aliving,52/901
evolutionary art, not a static situation; what worked once
must be adapted to present needs.
Whether those old practices (rabbits’ feet for money
spells,badgers’feetforchildbirthspells)wereeveraspreval-
ent as some would have us believe is subject to debate. The
most sensational, lurid aspects of magic are inevitably em-
phasizedbyoutsidersandstory-tellers.Theonlythingmany
know about the vast, sophisticated magical system Hoodoo,
forinstance,istheinfamousblackcatbone.Spellsusingparts
of animals are also taken out of context. Once upon a time,
people were responsible for killing their own food. Nothing
was wasted. What wasn’t eaten was utilized for other pur-
poses,includingmagic.Outofcontext,aspellcansoundter-
riblycruel.Thus,aRomanyamuletcalled“eyesofthecray-
fish”impliesthatonlytheeyesareused,havingbeenplucked
out of the poor creature. In reality, “eyes of the crayfish”
refers to scrapings from inside the shell, the crayfish itself
having been served for dinner.
Ifyouperceivepowerinthistypeofspell,however,they
canbemodernized,adapted,andimproved.Candles,charms,
andimages,forinstance,allowustoaccesstheinherenten-
ergyofaspecificanimalspeciesinamannerthatretainsma-
gicpowerandissafeforbothanimalandpractitioner.Forex-
ample, hummingbirds are a frequent component of Central
American love spells; a copper or gemstone hummingbird
charmallowsyoutosynchronizetheinherentanimalenergy
with a compatible material for enhanced spell-casting. For
maximum effect, consecrate the charm to the animal spirit,
which you would be unable to do if you were using actual
body parts obtained through the animal’s suffering.
This should not be considered mere New Age fluffy-
bunnyadaptation.Sinceancientdaysanimalimagemagichas
beenamongthemostpowerful.What-wastheBiblicalgolden53/901
calfafterallbutamagicimage?Alivingcalfwouldhavebeen
farlesstrouble.Itwasthespecificjunctureofanimalmagical
symbolism with metal’s inherent magical energy, guided by
humanfearanddesire,thataccuratelyandpotentlymanipu-
lated and directed magic power.
Animalsacrificehasnoplaceinmagic;itisreligiousritu-
alentirelyandcompletely,withoutoverlap.Allreligioustradi-
tionsatonetimeoranotherconductedanimalsacrifice,some
justfurtherbackthanothers.Somecontinuethesetraditions
whileothersdonot.Whatiscertainisthatnoreligioustradi-
tionpermitslaypeopletoconductthesesacrifices.Permission
isgrantedonlyafterstricttrainingandinitiation.Wherema-
gicapproachestheborderofreligion,symbolsareusedrather
than actual animals. Burn a dove-shaped candle to petition
Aphroditeduringalovespellorofferherthegiftofafigurine,
rather than killing her sacred bird. Again, this is not fluffy-
bunnymagicbutancienttradition.Howcanyoureconcilethe
ideaofadeitywhoacceptssacrificial offeringsofabeloved,
sacredcreatureinonecontext,butwhoangrilypunishesany-
onewhoharmsahairontheheadofthatcreatureinanother?
Over two thousand years ago, Hecate accepted sacrifices of
dogsinherofficialtemples,killedonlybyofficialpriestesses
inthecontextofveryspecificritual.Evenbackthen,individu-
alswhopreferredtomakeindependent,privateofferings,or
whocouldnotaffordtopaythetemplethecostofadog,suc-
cessfully offered tiny stone dog fetishes to Hecate instead.
Therearemagicspellscontainedinthisbookthatrequire
the participation of animals. It’s assumed that they’ll be
treatedwiththerespectonewouldpayhumanorspiritpart-
ners.Itisalsoassumedthatattheconclusionofthespell,the
animalwillbeinasgoodacondition,ifnotbetter,asitwasat
the spell’s beginning.54/901
Several spells require cuts of meat similar to those you
mighteatfordinner,assumingyouarenotavegetarian.Meat
forthesespellsshouldbepurchasedinthesamemannerthat
youwouldnormallyobtainmeatforameal.Therearemany
spellsthatrequireeggs,honey,andmilk.Vegansmaychoose
nottoperformtheseones,andtherearemanymorespellsin
thebookthatdonotuseanimalproducts.Magicspellsarenot
divorcedfromreallife.Ifsomethingoffendsyouinanyanoth-
ercontext,thenit’slikelytobeinappropriateforyoumagic-
ally as well.
Manipulation of fragrance is an extremely important
component of magic spells. As most fragrances derive from
botanicals,thetopicwillbediscussedingreaterdetailinthat
section.However,certainveryfamousfragranceshavetradi-
tionally derived from animal sources, most notably civet,
musk, ambergris, and castoreum. Castoreum, derived from
beavers, is today only available in synthetic versions. One
spellfeaturingonedropofcivetisincludedinthisbook(itis
theonlyingredientinthissex-magicspell)because,intheory
atleast,thefragrancemaybeobtainedwithoutundulyharm-
ingtheanimal,andargumentshavebeenmadethatthismay
betheonlywaytoguaranteetheseriouslyendangeredcivet’s
survival.Ican’thonestlysaythatI’mentirelyconvinced.You,
too, may wish to engage in further research.
Frankly,it’sunlikelythatyou’llbeabletopurchaseany-
thing other than synthetic versions of these fragrances, the
authentic article being rare and prohibitively expensive. Be-
cause they have always been rare and prohibitively expens-
ive—andsyntheticsarearecentinvention—historicbotanical
substitutes have always existed, and those substitutes are
used within the spells of this book:55/901
• For Musk, extracted from the musk deer: Am-
brette(Abelmoschusmoschatus),ashrubnative
toIndia,alsoknownasmuskmallowandtreas-
ured for its scented seed
• For Ambergris, derived from sperm whales:
Labdanum, aresinexcreted fromtheleavesof
the rock-rose (Cistus creticus, Cistus ladanifer).
AllegedlylabdanumfromCretehastheclosestre-
semblance to ambergris, although it is also ob-
tained from French, Moroccan, and Spanish
sources
Whetherthetendencytoutilizeanimalbodypartswaseveras
prevalent as some believe is debatable. Certainly, grimoires
are filled with spells specifically requesting assorted species’
feet and hearts and eyes. Many classic grimoires are based
largelyonvariousfragmentsofancientspell-booksthatwere
in circulation throughout Europe, Arabia, and North Africa
before the development of modern printing. Many of these
spellsderivefromturn-of-the-Common-EraAlexandria.Pro-
fessional magicians of that time, attempting to keep spells
secretyetneedingtowritethemdownsothattheythemselves
would remember complex formulas, created an elaborate
code,soelaboratethatsomeonehadtowriteitdowninorder
touseit.ThatlistwasdiscoveredandtranslatedamidtheMa-
gical Papyri.
• Doesaspellcallfortheheartofahawk?Noneed
tocatchthatbird,sosacredtoindigenousEgyp-
tianreligion—whatthespellisreallyaskingforis
heart of wormwood56/901
• Do you hesitate to cast a spell requiring lion’s
tongue?Noneed,allthatthatspellreallyrequires
is a“tongue”of turnip
• Wondering how in the world you’ll ever extract
Hercules’ semen? Not a problem; just go out to
the garden and pick some arugula
NoteveryanimalreferenceencodedintheMagicalPapyriisa
botanical,although(aswithmagicingeneral)plantsdopre-
dominate.Thespellthatdemandsaphysician’sboneneither
commands you to commit murder nor to dig around in the
cemetery: a piece of sandstone is what’s really being
requested.
Many,ifnotall,oftheseanimalreferencesmayoriginally
have referred to botanicals and minerals. Of course, by the
timethedescendantofasinglefragmentofpapyrusreached
Europe, hundreds of years later, copied and re-copied over
andoverbyhand,lackingtheaccompanyingcode,andsome
magician desperate to access the forbidden secret magic of
Egypt got his hands on a spell…
The spells recorded in the Magical Papyri are fairly
mean-spiritedingeneral,fullofcommandingandcompelling.
Werethemagiciansirresponsible,notcaringifothersmisin-
terpreted their instructions, or was this just an example of
professional secret code, full of in-jokes and personal refer-
ences,similartothesecretlanguages(sim)stillemployedby
some modern Egyptian entertainers? Across oceans, contin-
entsandtime,somemodernAmazonianshamansalsosharea
secret shamans’ language—a professional language only un-
derstoodbyotherprofessionals—inordertoprotecttheirin-
formation from those who don’t know how to use it properly.
Is this what those old Alexandrian magicians intended?
Wemayneverknow.Themoralofthestory,however,isnever57/901
cast spells that aren’t comfortable for you. It is neither un-
common for botanical and other materials to be named for
animals,noristhepracticerelegatedtoancienthistory.Many
spellsinthisbook,forinstance,callfordeer’stongue.Iassure
you,nodeerneedbeharmed.Deer’stongueisatypeofgrass,
reputed to provide eloquence: the name is a pun on the
plant’s appearance and its ability.
Swallow’sbloodisaredpowderthatallegedlytransmits
the magical power of that long-migrating bird; no blood of
any kind is required. Dragon’s blood, an extremely potent
magical material, surely ranks among the Top 20 most
popular spell-casting ingredients. No need to emulate Saint
George,dragon’sbloodistheresinfromDracaenadraco,an
Indonesiantree.Unlikemostresinsit’sred,hencethename.
If you burn it, it does indeed bear a resemblance to blood.
(Thereisalsoanotherdragon’sblood,usedinPeruvianma-
gic. This one, too, is a botanical substance, although com-
pletely distinct from the Indonesian resin.)
Spell-casting Using the
Power of Botanicals
Botanicaljustmeansplant,howeverbecauseofthevastvari-
etyofformsused(somenolongerremotely“plant-like”)any
typeofplant-derivedpower,initsoriginalformorotherwise,
is categorized as a botanical. Botanicals, as a category, are
probablythemostcommoningredientsinspell-casting.Many
peoplewillnevercastacandlespell,neverworkwithcrystals
or wands or magic mirrors, but it’s virtually impossible to58/901
engage in magic without relying on botanical power to a
greaterorlesserextent.Plantsareubiquitousinmagic.Their
powerisaccessedviamanyforms,whichlendthemselvesto
variousstylesofspell-casting,sothatbotanicalsareincorpor-
ated into virtually every style of spell.
Casting Magic Spells in
Partnership with Your Living
Plant Allies
Fairy-talewitchesresideinhuts,cottages,orcastlessurroun-
dedbymagicallyempoweredgardens.WhenPrinceCharming
seeksSleepingBeautyinherenchantedcastle,thesurround-
inggarden,fullofthicketsandthorns,activelyreachesoutto
preventhim.Althoughonemustneverrelyonone’sProtec-
tion Spell Garden to play the role of armed-response guard,
there is a metaphoric truth hidden in this story.
Gardenscanbebothproductsofenchantmentandinde-
pendentproducersofenchantment;theyarealiving,on-go-
ing magic spell. Gardens may be arranged in any variety of
ways—color-coordinated,whateverwasonsaleatthenursery,
even completely haphazardly. If you select, coordinate, and
arrange plants according to the magic powers they radiate,
then planting a garden becomes one style of casting a spell.
Thus your desire to draw wealth, protection, or fertility to
one’shomeismanifestedbycarefullyarrangingtheappropri-
ateplants,andvigilantlyremovingthosepossessingopposing,
contradictory powers.
This obviously is a long-term extended magic spell,
ratherthanthetypeofquick-fixluckspellyoumightchoose59/901
foraspontaneoustriptoacasino.Howwillyoubenefitfrom
this type of garden spell?
• The actual spell-casting, and then time spent
among the botanicals and their radiant energy
creates the desired adjustment on your own
energy
• The radiant energy of the coordinated garden
drawsand/orrepelsthetargetedgoaltoyouand
to your home in a more powerful manner than
one botanical or amulet could achieve alone
• This spell is a symbiotic, reciprocal process,
which ultimately strengthens all living parti-
cipantsfortheirmutualbenefit.Thegardenwill
additionally attract complementary animal and
spiritallieswhowillalsocontributetothesuccess
of your spell
Thistypeofmagicspellisnotlimitedtothosewithaccessto
personalpropertyorsunnyweather.Magicspellgardensmay
be created indoors in pots. Furthermore, an entire garden
need not be created; one or two individual plants may be
grown as part of a magic spell or to further other magic spells.
There are several very good reasons to maintain living plants:
• If you are pursuing a spiritual or magical alli-
ance with a specific plant, this is best accom-
plished with a living plant, redolent with power
and consciousness, rather than processed, dried
plants that retain power but lack conscious
intelligence
• You can grow plants necessary for magic spells
and/or physical healing. As you nurture the
plant,communicatewithit:shareyourfearsand60/901
desires,lettheplantknowwhatyouwantfromit.
Theseplantswillpotentiallyprovidemorepower
foryouthananyothers.Theybecomeyourpart-
nersinhealingandmagic.Itisasymbioticrela-
tionship: they care for you as you care for them
• Inmanycasesifyouwanttoworkwithaplant,
you’ll have to grow it. That’s the only way it is
guaranteedtobeavailable.Theplantrealmisas
ecologically devastated, if not more so, than the
animalkingdom.Manyplantsareextinctorseri-
ously endangered. The only way to work with
some magical plants ( Solomon’s Seal or Low
John the Conqueror, for instance), the only way
toincorporatethemintoanyspell,istogrowand
nurturethem.Itistheonlywaytheirpowerwill
be available to you
Becausetherehavealwaysbeeneconomic,space,andclimatic
reasonswhyworkingwithlivingplantsisimpractical,andbe-
causedifferentpartsofaplant(roots,leaves,flowers)mani-
festdifferentmagicpowerandenergy,andthusareusedin-
dependentlyindifferentspells,variousmethodsofprocessing
plants have evolved over millennia. These include: dried
botanicalsincludingincense,floweressenceremedies,hydro-
sols and oils, including fixed, essential, and fragrance oils.
Harvesting Botanicals
In order to maximize botanicals’ magic potential, magic
rituals and spells are incorporated into their harvesting.
Becauseplantsarealive,removingthemfromEarthisa
risky operation. One has the option of increasing and61/901
enhancingtheirinherentpower,orofoffendingEarthandthe
presidingPlantSpirits.Onceuponatime,allharvesting,for
magicalorotherpurposes,wasaccompaniedbyspells,rituals,
and propitiation of various Earthly and Spirit forces. Unless
you purchase your botanicals from magically oriented
vendors,onecansafelyassumethatmodernharvestingisac-
companied by no such rituals or spells.
Ifyoupracticeextensivebotanicalspell-castingyoumay
wishtoincorporatesimilargesturesinotherways,toenhance
yourspellsandtoprovidespiritualprotectionforyourself.If
however,yougrowandharvestyourownbotanicals,ancient
spells and rituals may be borrowed or adapted.
Because they’re alive, have power, and must be treated
with respect, it’s not appropriate to just go out and grab a
handful of plant. Botanical materials are safely harvested
throughmagicritual.Essentiallyyoucastaspellinorderto
gainmaterialstocastmorespells.Theplant(oritspresiding
spirit or Earth herself, however you best understand this)
mustbeaddressed.Thepurposeforgatheringshouldbeex-
plained. Because of the principle of reciprocity, gifts are ex-
changed.Libationsofwaterarealwaysappropriate,however
different traditions favor different gifts. Native Americans
offered pinches of tobacco; Anglo-Saxons once offered oat-
meal. The ancient Romans offered bread and wine. Honey,
wine,andmenstrualbloodarepopularofferings.Fragrantin-
cense may be burned in the vicinity as a gift.
Magic spells are always as simple or as complex as the
practitionerwishes.Aninvolved,formalharvestingspellfol-
lows;followitprecisely,ifitsuitsyou,orconsiderhowbestto
adapt for your own personal needs.
Sometimes distinct plants demand distinct rituals. Two
spellsfollow,onefromWales,theotherfromancientGreece,
one for an extremely popular magic plant, the other for a62/901
more obscure one. Consider these spells, follow them pre-
ciselyifyoulikeorconsiderhowbesttoadaptthemforyour
own harvesting needs.
Virtually any list of Top 10 magical plants will include
vervain.LegendsaysvervainsprangfromIsis’tears;theherb
is believed to have a special fondness for humans and thus
worksextrahardtoprovidehappinessandsuccessforus.Itis
believedtohavebeenoneofthecrucialingredientsofCerrid-
wen’sCauldron.TheDruidsinsistedthatvervainbeharvested
withanironknife.AnancientWelshformulastipulateshow
vervainmustbegatheredinordertoguaranteeitsmaximum
magic power:
WARNING!
Many people exhibit a dangerous tendency to as-
sume that if a plant is used for magical reasons,
particularly benevolent ones, it does not also cre-
ate a physical impact. This is not true, and this
assumption can lead to disaster.
Botanicals are an holistic power: they affect
us simultaneously on spiritual, emotional, magic-
al, and physical levels. It is possible to cast word
charms, image magic or play with candles and
crystals without profound physical effect. This is
not so with plants. Plants are the basis of medical
knowledge, andeven magical plants have aphys-
ical effect.63/901
Because something has power doesn’t mean
it is always the right power for you. For instance,
many magic spell sites on the Internet offer dir-
ections for protective spell baths featuring the
herb rue with nary a health warning, despite the
fact that it has abortifacient properties and the
British master herbalist Nicholas Culpeper said
that he couldn’t recommend that a pregnant wo-
manevenwalkthrougharoomcontainingrue,let
alone handle or bathe with it.
Be careful. If you have anything that could be
perceived as a physical vulnerability, it is your re-
sponsibility to verify whether any botanical may
aggravateyourcondition.Ifyouarepregnant,at-
tempting to become pregnant or nursing a child,
the potential safety of all botanicals must be de-
termined. This is not obscure information. Many
excellent literary sources on herbs and botanicals
exist. Knowledgeable, professional herbalists,
physicians, and medical providers can give you
information as well. This does not only apply to
traditional modes of internal application such as
consuming botanicals, but also inhaling fumes or
topical application such as bathing, or even per-
haps intensive, concentrated handling, depending
on the potency of the plant.
Magic is always intended to improve one’s
life;injuringone’shealthintheprocessofcasting
a spell defeats that purpose. Incorporate your
personal needs into choosing the best spells for
you.64/901
Welsh Vervain Harvest Spell
1. The plant must be harvested during the rising of
Sirius,theDogStar,atanhourwhenbothsunand
moon are beneath the horizon.
2. Before uprooting the plant, offer a libation of
honey.
3. Youmayonlyuseyourlefthandduringtheentire
operation, whether you are left or right handed:
pull up the plant and wave it aloft.
4. Separateleaves,flowers,androots,anddrythem
separatelyintheshade.(Eachhasitsownmagical
uses.)
Ancient Greek Black Hellebore
Harvest Spell
Although poisonous, black hellebore, the Christmas rose, is
perceived to have magically protective powers.
1. Castamagiccirclearoundtheintendedplant,us-
ingamagicwandorknife.Ifyoudonotworkwith
thoseritualtools,considerarespectfulwaytode-
marcate the harvest space.
2. Request permission to gather the plant from
ApolloandhissonAsklepios,theplant’spresiding
spirits.
3. Burn incense and make offerings to the spirits.
4. Offer a libation to the plant, and then gather it.65/901
Casting Spells Using Dried
Botanicals
Themostprevalentingredientsofmagicspellsareprocessed
botanicals,especiallydriedplantsandoils.Dryingplantspre-
serves them for extended use, allowing you to work with
plantsoutofseasonandthosethatcannotbegrowninyour
personalregion.Driedbotanicalsfromallovertheworld,rep-
resenting many magical traditions, may be purchased from
herbal suppliers.
Driedbotanicalsarefrequentlysoldalreadychoppedup,
cutorpowdered.Asthisfrequentlyneedstobedonebefore
spell-casting,purchasingbotanicalsinthisformcanbeareal
timeandeffortsaver—withonecaveat.Leavesandblossoms,
even chopped, often remain easily distinguishable. Pepper-
mint doesn’t smell like vervain or hibiscus, for instance.
Roots, on the other hand, often the most magically potent
partofaplant,oncechoppedorpowdered,arefairlyindistin-
guishablefromeachother.Itisnotuncommonforunethical
orignorantvendorstosubstituteonerootforanother.Ifyou
arelookingforadistinctroot,sayHighJohntheConqueror,
forwhichthisisacommonproblem,buythewholerootand
grindandpowderityourself,eventhoughthiscanbedifficult.
Itistheonlywaytoguaranteethatyouarereceivingwhatyou
want, the only way to maintain control over what may be a
pivotalingredient.Familiarizeyourselfwithbotanicals.Know
what they should look like and what they should smell like,
and you will be less likely to be fooled.
Ifyougrowplantsorhaveaccesstofreshplants,it’sex-
tremely easy—virtually child’s play—to dry them yourself.66/901
Drying Botanicals
Hangbotanicalsupsidedowninsmallbunches,sothatthey
arenottoocrowded.Professionalherbdryers,resemblingho-
rizontal ladders, can be used, or attach bunches to a wire
hanger. Allow botanicals to hang in a well-ventilated area
away from direct sunlight until dry.
Casting Spells by Burning
Botanicals
Magicspellsarecastbyburningbotanicals(incense),thusre-
leasing their magic power into the atmosphere (fumigation).
Oneofthemostancientmethodsofcastingspellsiscon-
sciously, carefully, and deliberately burning botanicals. This
methodincorporatesallfourprimalelementsintoonespell.
By applying the power of fire, botanical power (which has
been nourished by Earth and by water) is transformed into
smoke(air)anddispersedintotheatmospheretoprovidema-
gicalsolutionsandfulfillmagicaldesires.Ifyouburnincense
on a metal pan or burner, then you incorporate what many
consider to be the fifth element, metal, into your spell as well.
Modern incense frequently takes the form of sticks and
cones, which require a little technical know-how. However,
incenseisanancient,ancientart.Ifcavepeoplehadthetech-
nology to create fine, viable incense, of course you do, too.
The original incense was loose dried botanical material,
groundandpowdered.Mostmagicspellsassumeincensewill
be in this form.67/901
Mortars and pestles are ancient magical, medical, and
culinary tools. They may be used to break down and blend
botanicalmaterial.Onceuponatime,incensewascreatedby
repeatedgrindingwithamortarandpestle,andthensifting
withasieve(alsoanancientmagictool).However,ifyoude-
sirethefinepowderthatmanyspellsspecify,acoffeeorspice
grinder,particularlyanold-fashionedmanualone,canmake
life easier.
Ifyoupreferstickincense,blanksmaybepurchasedand
doctored to your taste.
To Form an Incense Cone
1. Dissolvegumarabicainwater,approximatelyone
part powder to two parts water.
2. Allowthematerialtosoakforapproximatelythree
hours.
3. Inthemeantime,pulverizetheherbalmaterialto
be used until it is finely powdered (using mortar
and pestle or other grinding tool).
4. Mix this powder into the liquid until it can be
shaped into small cones.
5. Allow to dry completely in a warm area.
Botanical Infusions
Aninfusionistheprocessbywhichonemedium(orpower)is
encouraged to permeate another. The most common are
botanicalsinfusedinwateroroil.Themostfamousinfusion
intheworldisacupoftea.Ifyoumaketeawithlooseleaves68/901
ratherthanateabag,youalreadyknowalotaboutinfusions.
Infusionsallowyoutoinsertspecificbotanicalpowerintopo-
tions,baths,floorwashes,andmagicaloils,amongmanyother
things.
WARNING!
Botanical power comes in many forms. These
powers are not interchangeable. When a spell re-
quests a dried herb, substituting an essential oil
may not be appropriate or even safe.
Water-based Infusions
Thestandardformulaforawaterinfusionisoneteaspoonof
dried herb, or one-and-a-half teaspoons of fresh herb for
every cup of boiling water. Unless otherwise advised, main-
tain these proportions even when using multiple herbs, ad-
justing the proportions of the individual ingredients rather
than the whole.
1. Placethebotanicalsintoanonreactivepotorcon-
tainer (glass rather than plastic, for instance).
2. Pour the water over the botanical material.
3. Allowittobrew,usuallyforbetweenfiveandfif-
teen minutes.
4. Theplantmaterialmaybestrainedfromtheliquid
orallowedtoremain,dependinguponthepurpose69/901
ofthespell.Forafloorwash,you’dwanttoremove
the botanical; for a particularly potent magical
bath,itmaybemorepowerfultoretainthebotan-
icals,eventhoughthismayleaveamesstoclean
up.
Sometimesastronger,moreconcentratedinfusionisdesired
for a bath or floorwash, butnotfor drinking.
1. Placeamoresubstantialquantityofbotanicalma-
terial into a nonreactive pot or container.
2. Pouronlyenoughboilingwateroverthebotanical
material to cover it.
3. Allowittobrewforaslongasittakesthewaterto
return to room temperature.
4. Strainthebotanicalsfromtheliquidorretain,as
desired.
Oil-based Infusions
Theprocessofcreatinginfusedoilsisslightlymorecomplex,
however it is still easily accomplished in the home kitchen.
Thestandardproportionsuggestedisthatforeverycupofoil,
oneounceoffreshherboronehalfounceofdriedherbisre-
quired. Unless otherwise advised, do not exceed these
proportions.
1. Place the botanical material in a stainless steel
bowl.
2. Cover with the oil.
3. Gentlyheatoversimmeringwater,eitherinatrue
double boiler or in an improvised water bath—a70/901
saucepan one-quarter filled with water. The bowl
with the herbs must not sit on the bottom of the
panbutfloatinthewater.Asitisveryeasyforoil
to scorch and burn, this process needs constant
supervision for safety. Keep the oil covered.
4. Stir once in a while. Simmer gently for thirty
minutes.Theoilshouldnotbeallowedtogettoo
hotbecauseifitsmokes,bubbles,orburns,anac-
rid fragrance will develop, spoiling the infusion.
5. Allowtheoiltocool.Thenallthebotanicalmateri-
almustbestrainedoutthroughmultiplelayersof
cheesecloth or a fine non-metal strainer. Strain
twice,ifnecessary,ormore.Iftheplantmaterialis
not removed, the oil may turn rancid.
6. Ifaninfusionspellincludesessentialoilsorflower
remedies for enhancement, add them now, once
the oil is strained and cooled.
7. Store the infused oil in an airtight container.
You can substitute a crock-pot for the water bath. Maintain
thesameproportions.Leavethepotonalowheatforapprox-
imately two hours, then strain as above.
Solar-charged Infusions
Ifyoucandependuponconsistentwarm,sunnyweather,ex-
tremely powerful infusions may be created via solar power.
Theseinfusionscontainthepowerofthesunaswellasthatof
botanicals.
1. Placethebotanicalsinsideajarwithatight-fitting
lid.71/901
2. Pouroiloverthem(makesurethebotanicalsare
completely covered).
3. Add one tablespoon of apple cider vinegar.
4. Leave the jar to sit exposed to warm sun all day
and in a warm cupboard (or exposed to moon-
beams,ifit’swarm)allnight,fortwoweeks.Strain
as above.
Flower Oil Infusion
Thereisalsoanothermethodofinfusingoilthatdoesnotre-
quireheat.Thismethodisusuallyusedtocapturethepower-
transmitting fragrance of delicate flower petals.
1. Separate the petals.
2. Placesubstantialquantitiesofclean,drypetalsin-
to an airtight jar and cover with oil. (An oil with
minimal fragrance of its own is usually preferred
to allow the flower’s scent to transmit most
powerfully.)
3. Letthepetalssteepintheoilforthreedays,shak-
ingthejaroccasionally,keepingthejarinthesun
in the daytime and in a warm cupboard at night.
4. Strain out and discard the petals, ideally using
somecheeseclothorothernon-metalsieve,butre-
tain the oil.
5. Fill the jar with a substantial quantity of fresh,
clean, dry flower petals and cover them with the
reserved oil.
6. Again allow the petals to steep, repeating all the
previous stages. The oil will retain the fragrance;
repeat until the desired intensity of fragrance is72/901
achieved (usually three repetitions is needed),
thencarefullystrainoutallthesolidbotanicalma-
terial and reserve the oil.
Ifyouarecreatinglargequantitiesofinfusedoilsthatwillnot
beusedupquickly,it’sbestandsafesttoaddanaturalpreser-
vative. One quarter teaspoon of simple tincture of benzoin,
availablefrommanypharmacies,maybeaddedpercupofin-
fused oil. Benzoin is derived from styrax gum, believed to
have sacred properties and to create a cleansing, protective
action. (Make sure you have simple tincture, not compound
tincture, which is also known as Friar’s Balsam.)
VitaminEmayalsobeusedasapreservative.However,
be aware that much of what is readily available is synthetic.
PierceoneVitaminEcapsuleandaddthecontentsperevery
cupofinfusedoil.Jojobaoilisnotatrueoilbutaplantlipid
with antioxidant properties. Blend it with other oils to dis-
courage them from turning rancid. (Maintain the basic pro-
portionsofoiltobotanicals,however,evenwhenusingmul-
tiple oils.)
Casting Spells Using Oils
Oils have always been prized components of magic spells.
However, not all oils are truly oils, and not all oils are even
truly botanical.73/901
Essential Oils
Essential oils are not true oils, despite their name. They are
volatileliquidsextractedbyvariousmethods(usually,butnot
always, by steam distillation) from aromatic botanicals.
Modernaromatherapyisthemanipulationoftheseessential
oilsfortherapeutic,cosmetic,magical,andspiritualpurposes.
The roots of aromatherapy stretch back to ancient China,
Egypt,Mesopotamia,andtheMiddleEast.Ifyouwouldlike
toaccessthepowerofabotanical,essentialoilsarethemost
concentratedformandassuchhavemanymagicaluses.Once
upon a time, essential oils were also referred to as chemical
oils, especially in older grimoires. This relates not to their
chemical constituents, which we are only now beginning to
understand,buttotheirprevioususeinalchemy,thetermbe-
ing a corruption of alchemical oils.
Their potential physical impact upon you is as concen-
trated as their magical power:
• Nevertakeessentialoilsinternallywithoutexpert
supervision
• Evenwhentakenexternally,theyareusedspar-
ingly, drop by drop. Each drop packs a lot of
power. More is rarely better
• Becausetheirpowerisvolatileandfleeting,when
creatingmagicalbaths,potions,oroils,essential
oilsareusuallythelastingredientsaddedsoasto
maximize the intensity of their power and
fragrance
• Ingeneral,essentialoilsarenotappropriatefor
use during pregnancy, especially early
pregnancy74/901
• Because essential oils are so concentrated (and
because some are profound skin irritants) they
areusuallydilutedintrueoils(usuallyreferredto
as “carrier oils”) before using
Fragrance is an extremely important component of magic,
particularly in romantic spells and spirit-summoning spells.
Eachspirithasacharacteristicaroma,whichcallsthemand
by which they may be identified. In ancient Egypt, this was
one way that true spiritual visitation was determined: the
deities signaled their presence through the sudden appear-
ance of their characteristic fragrance. Vestiges of this belief
surviveinfolkloricChristianity, wherethedevilisdescribed
as appearing amid the smell of brimstone. (Signature fra-
granceisn’tlimitedtothespiritrealmalone.Inthe1944Ray
Millandmovie,TheUninvited,theghostsignalsherpresence
viathescentofmimosa.)Fragrance,especiallyastransmitted
bytruebotanicals,istheprimaryandmosteffectivemagical
device for communicating between realms.
Thehumansenseofsmellremainsthemostmysterious
ofoursenses.Theolfactorysystem(thepartofourbrainthat
processesscent)isnearwhatisknownasthereptilianbrain,
the most ancient and least-understood part of the human
brain.Scentisourprimalsense,theonesharedmostclosely
withtheanimalandspiritrealms.Magicisaprimordialart;
totrulymasterit,onemustaccesstheseinherentprimordial
talents.Thesenseofsmellmaybethemostconcrete,accurate
waywehaveofidentifyingandaccessingheka,magicpower.
Essential oils are frequently the most concentrated, potent,
and accessible way of accessing an individual plant’s heka,
even though this very power means they must be handled
with care.75/901
True Oils
True oils, also known as fixed, carrier, or base oils (because
theycarryessentialoils’energiesandserveastheirbase)have
always been perceived as precious and sacred. The ancient
Egyptianshadanastonishingrepertoireoftrueoils,fargreat-
erthanourown.Althoughtrueoilsareusedascarriersforthe
magic powers inherent in dried botanicals or essential oils,
theyalsohavetheirownmagicpower,andspellscanbecast
usingtrueoilsalone.Castoroilhasprotective, commanding
magic properties, while sweet almond oil is a component of
many romantic and erotic spells, for instance. Mineral oil
(babyoil)isnotabotanical,butapetroleumproduct:itsma-
gical uses are restricted mainly to hexes—malevolent spells.
Thereareseveralwaystodistinguishessentialoilsfrom
true oils. Essential oils, also known as volatile oils from the
Latin volare, “to fly away,” evaporate completely into air,
without leaving a trace. Although they may deteriorate and
their power fade, they do not grow rancid. In contrast, true
oilswillleavearingorresidueandwillnotevaporate—asany-
onewho’shadtocleanoutagreasypancanattest.Trueoils
willalsogrowrancidovertime,althoughsomebecomerancid
more quickly than others.
True oils are, in general, extracted from the seeds or
fruitsofplants.Cold-pressedoils(whichwillalmostalwaysbe
labeledassuch)arepreferable,whenpossible.(Grapeseedoil,
for instance, can only be extracted via the use of solvents.)76/901
Fragrance Oils
Because real essential oils are extracted via expensive,
laborintensive, time-consuming processes, synthetics are of-
tensubstituted.Ifanessentialoilistooreasonablypriced,be
cautious.Oftenwedogetwhatwepayfor.Labelingisnotal-
ways clear and manufacturer’s terms may be meant very
loosely.
Essential oils cannot be obtained from every botanical.
Thereisnosuchthingascherryorcucumberorappleessen-
tialoil.Furthermore,essentialoilsmustbederived,bydefini-
tion,frombotanicalmaterial.Thereisnosuchproductases-
sentialoilofrain,althoughproductsexistthatreproducethe
fragranceofarainyday.Invariably,theseproductsarecrafted
fromsyntheticmaterials,knownasfragranceoils,thestaples
of the perfume industry. Some are real dead ringers for the
genuinematerialandcanfoolmanyanexpert.However,be-
cause no plant material is actually contained, fragrance oils
lacktrue,completemagicalpower.Thatsaid,sometimes,es-
peciallyforcandlemagic,fragrancealonemaybesufficientto
spark your magic, to evoke a response from your brain. In
general, fragrance oils are fine for dressing candles, but not
for the body.
Hydrosols
Hydrosols,alsocalledhydrolats,aretheotherproductofthe
aromatherapyindustry.Whenessentialoilsareproducedby
steamdistillation,waterispassedthroughthebotanicalma-
terialandtheneventuallyseparatedout;thatwaterhasalso
beenmagicallytransformedbythedistillationprocess:itisno77/901
longer plain water but contains plant molecules. Although
otherflowerwatersaresold(usuallyroseororangeblossom
water)thesearefrequentlyonlyflower-scentedorflower-in-
fusedwaters.Hydrosolsactuallycarrythepoweroftheirre-
spectivebotanicals.Hydrosolproductionisanoldalchemical
process, although it lay dormant, forgotten, and unappreci-
ated for centuries. Now fresh attention is paid to hydrosols;
new ones become available every day. They are an increas-
ingly important component of magic spells.
Flower Essence Remedies
Alchemists,witches,andherbalistshavealwayspainstakingly
gathered morning dew from individual plants to access its
magicpowers.Infusedwiththespecificpoweroftheparticu-
larplant,thesetinyliquiddewdropletsalsocontaintheper-
fectbalanceofthefourprimalelements:thepowerofwater,
theearthradiatingthroughtheplant,thesurroundingairand
fire from the sun.
Onceuponatime,ifyouwantedtoaccessthispower,you
were limited to the plants growing on your lawn. This is no
longer the case. Modern flower essence remedies bring the
powerofflowersfromalloverEarth—fromtheAmazonrain-
forest to the Australian outback—right to your door.
The pioneer and founding father of modern flower es-
senceremedieswasDr.EdwardBach,aHarleyStreetphysi-
cianandhomeopath.Dr.Bacheventuallycametotherealiza-
tion that true, complete healing was not possible when ap-
proachedsolelyfromthephysicalplane.Emotionalandspir-
itual imbalances are the root causes of dysfunction of all
kinds. True healing and transformation must be accessed
throughthesoulandemotions.Dr.Bachdevotedtherestof78/901
hislife,atgreatpersonalsacrifice,todevelopingtheoriginal
Bach flower essence remedies, which provide the vehicle for
this healing and transformation. According to Dr. Bach, the
flowers communicated to him directly, sharing their secrets
and potential for healing with him. Since then, many other
floweressencepractitionershavefollowedinDr.Bach’sfoot-
stepstobringusgreateraccesstoawidervarietyofbotanical
material than ever before.
It’seasytobeconfusedbetweenfloweressenceremedies
andessentialoils:theyhaveextremelysimilarnamesandare
even packaged in a similar manner (in tiny glass vials). Al-
thoughtheycomplementeachother’spowersandworkvery
welltogether,theyareextremelydifferentandcannotbesub-
stituted for one another.
Essentialoilsaretrueplantextracts,withextremelypo-
tentandsometimesscientificallydocumentedphysicaleffects.
When I taught therapeutic aromatherapy, many of my stu-
dents were nurses learning to incorporate essential oils into
conventionalhospitalpractice.Allessentialoilsare,toade-
gree,antiseptic;manyhavepotentanti-bacterialandanti-vir-
al effects in addition to whatever magical power they also
hold.
Noonecompletelyunderstandshowfloweressencerem-
edieswork,althoughtheydo—profoundly.Generalconsensus
isthatitisaformofvibrationalhealing.Floweressencesare
purewater,infusedandchargedwiththeplant’senergyand
vibration.There’snoneedtokilltheplanttoaccessthisen-
ergy;typicallyonlyafewcarefullychosenleavesareused.By
definition, the remedy won’t work if the plant used is not a
powerful,healthyspecimen.Theseessencesprovideahealing
bridgebetweenthesoulofthebotanicalandyourown.While
essential oils may be understood as the lifeblood of a plant,
flower essence remedies capture the plant’s aura.79/901
Floweressenceremediesaretheexceptiontotherulere-
gardingbotanicals’impactonthephysicalplane—thereisno
directphysicaleffect.Alltheeffectsarefeltontheemotional,
spiritual,andmagicalplanes.Theyaresafeforeveryone’suse:
children, animals, crystals, and other plants.
When using flower essence remedies the most common
modeofadministrationisinternal.Manufacturerswillsupply
directions,howeverthestandarddoseformostisfourdrops
fourtimesaday.Topicaladministrationisalsoextremelyef-
fective: massage the flower essence remedy into the body,
particularlyintothesolesoffeetandthethinskinstretched
between thumb and forefinger.
Every manufacturer of flower essence remedies has a
specificrepertoireofbotanicals.Whenfloweressenceremed-
iesarecitedinthetext,thenameoftheirmanufacturerfol-
lows in parenthesis. For example: Mugwort (FES).
Spell-casting Using the
Powers of the Elements
InWesternmagicandphilosophy,Earth’spoweristradition-
ally broken down into four components, known as the ele-
ments:Air,Earth,Fire,andWater.AirandFirearetradition-
allyconsideredmaleoryangenergies,whileEarthandWater
are most typically perceived as female, or yin. Life springs
fromearthandwaterbutairandfirearenecessarytospark
theprocess.Healthymagicpowerderivesfromtheharmoni-
ous balance of these elements.80/901
Fromamagicalstandpoint,thepowerofeachelementis
unique, specific, and alive. Depending upon the purpose of
yourspell,oneelement may beinvoked oremphasized over
theothers.Poweralsoderivesfromtheinterplaybetweenthe
elements.Powerisenhancedwhentheelementsintermingle
and form a threshold. Steam emerges from the marriage of
waterandfire,forinstance,andisapotentforceforspiritual
cleansing and protection.
Individualsareinfluencedbytheseelements,too.Oneor
more elements will predominate in every individual’s natal
astrologicalchartandwillthusinfluencenotonlytheirchar-
acter but also the type of magic spell that usually appeals
most to that individual and is most accessible. I have listed
the elemental affiliations of the astrological signs below,
howeveranaccurategaugecanonlybereceivedfromacom-
pletebirthchart.SomeonewhoisaTaurus,anearthsign,but
whohasfiveotherplanetsinawatersignisaverywateryper-
son, despite their sun sign.
Theelementsareeasilyunderstoodifoneconsiderstheir
qualities.
Air
Air serves as a transmitter and a messenger. Because magic
(andsomeschoolsofhigherphysics)assertsthatnothingthat
exists truly disappears, to say that something “vanishes into
thinair”ismeantveryliterallywhendiscussingmagicspells.
Candlesthataccessthepoweroffirealsosummonthepower
ofair:whatisburneddisappearsintotheair.Airisassociated
withastraltravel;witchesflythroughtheairevenifthejour-
ney is accomplished with dreams or visions.81/901
Air is considered a masculine, yang energy.
Fragranceisthelanguageofair.Wordcharmsalsodraw
upon air power.
Air signs: Gemini, Libra, Aquarius.
Earth
Earth is our battery and generator, providing capacity for
growthandsolidity.Earthisaparticularlyimportantelement
for those journeying into magical realms because earth
provides stability, reality, and gravity. Magicians should
spendtimeinthegarden,evenifnotgardening,andbarefoot
wheneverpossible.Ifthisisn’tappealing,playwithrealclay
(notsynthetic),ormakemudpieslikeachild.Gotothespa
and take a mud bath.
Earth is considered a feminine, yin power.
Earth’smagicalpowerisaccessedthroughthebotanicals
thatarerootedinEarth,figuresformedfromclay,anddirtit-
self, as in graveyard dirt or crossroads dirt.
Earth signs: Taurus, Virgo, Capricorn.
Fire
Fireisthemostindependentofelements,defyingallillusions
ofhumancontrol.Fireheals,energizes,cleanses,andpurifies.
Fire is transformative and must always be treated with re-
spect. Although you can get into trouble with any element
(think floods, mudslides, tornadoes) fire is commonly the
most dangerous. I cannot emphasize enough: never assume
thatbecauseyou’reengagedinmagicalorspiritualactsthat82/901
common-sensefiresafetydoesnotalsoapply.Fireisnever
completely safe. Be vigilant.
Fire is a masculine, yang energy.
Candlesarethemostpopularformoffiremagic.Magical
bonfiresandlampsarealsolit.Magicmirrorsaresometimes
usedtoaccessfire’stransformative(andpotentiallydestruct-
ive) powers.
Fire signs: Aries, Leo, Sagittarius.
Water
Water is the element most affiliated with magic. Water is
wherelifeoriginates,notjustasanabstractconceptorinDar-
winiantheory,butliterallyforeachofusasweemergefrom
our mother’s amniotic sacs. Water is the element of psychic
power and intuitive knowledge.
Water is a feminine, yin energy.
Waterspellsareconductedinthebathtubandatthesea-
shore.Waterspellsincludethoseincorporatinglunarcharged
waters, magically charged waters, and captured rainwater.
Water signs: Cancer, Scorpio, Pisces.
Fire and Water, extreme yang and yin, are a matched pair,
leaving Earth and Air paired with each other. Like yin/yang
forcesingeneral,theelementsdon’texistinmutualexclusiv-
ity.Magicmaybeperformedwithonlyoneelement(anAir-
magic word charm) but is most frequently a combination of
twoormoreforces.Forinstance,incensecombinesbotanical
power (Earth) with Fire, to produce fragrant smoke (Air). A
complex spell that involves dressing a candle with botanical83/901
oil,andthenburningitwhileyou’rebathinginamagicalinfu-
sion combines all four elements simultaneously.
This grouping of the four elements of Air, Earth, Fire,
and Water is the traditional Western system and is the one
mostcommonlysharedbymagicaltraditions.However,itis
not the only system:
• Chinesemagictraditionallycountsfiveelements.
Althoughmetalisimportantinmostothertradi-
tions,too,Chinesephilosophyemphasizesthisim-
portance by counting Metal as one of the ele-
ments, alongside and equal to the Western four
• Jewishmagictraditionallycountsthreeelements.
Air (or ether) is considered so ubiquitous that it
doesn’tneedtobecountedasanelement.There-
fore only Water, Earth, and Fire are recognized
as elements
Casting Spells Incorporating
the Power of Metal
Althoughmagicinitsmodernformstemsfromthediscovery
of metal and smithcraft, metal today is an under-utilized
modernmagicalmaterial.Perhapsthisreflectsancienttaboos
on the material and the role of the blacksmith.
Eachmetal,likeeachstoneorbotanical,projectsaspecif-
icmagicalenergy,althoughastherearefewermetalsthanthe
vastquantitiesofbotanicalsorcrystals,it’seasiertosumup
these powers.
• Brass: protection, love84/901
• Copper: love, healing
• Gold: wealth, vitality
• Lead: domination, binding (the most frequent
material for curse tablets)
• Silver: protection, fertility
• Tin: wealth, luck, divination
The most powerful magical metal, however, and among the
most magically charged of all materials on Earth, is iron.
Iron
Themetalmostassociatedwithmagic,worldwide,isiron.Be-
causeironisnotfoundinitspurestateexceptasameteorite,
itwasknownastheMetalofHeavenandperceivedasagift
from sacred powers. Meteors were carved into representa-
tions of deities: the original cult statue housed inside the
Temple of Artemis at Ephesus, one of the ancient world’s
SevenWonders,wascarvedfromameteorite.Themostsac-
redrepresentationofthegoddessKybelewasanuncutmet-
eor,believedbymanytoremainburiedunderthefoundations
of Saint Peter’s Basilica, which was built over her Roman
temple.
Ironprovidespowerandprotection.Magicallyspeaking,
ironisreputedtorestorehealth,providevitality,bothphysic-
alandpsychic,andcureimpotence.Malevolentspiritsarein-
variably frightened of iron: it repels them and chases them
away.Ironboxesprotectmagicaltoolsthewayaleadblanket
protectsapersonduringthex-rayprocess.Becauseironisthe
metaloftruth,traditionallyinareasofAfrica,andperhapsin
someareasstill,peoplewouldswearonironinthewaythat
others swear on the Bible or Koran. One of the simplest85/901
protectivespellsinvolvesplacinganironknifeortoolunder
one’spillow,nottoserveasareadyweaponbuttoofferspir-
itual protection while you sleep.
Withtheexceptionofmenstrualblood,nosingleitemis
moreassociatedwithmagicthaniron.Infactthetwopowers,
menstrualbloodandiron,areintrinsicallylinked.Whileother
metals, like stones, may be perceived as Earth’s bones, iron
ore is regarded as Earth’s menstrual blood.
Despiteorbecauseofitsgreatpower,ironisadangerous,
volatile element. Iron is used for healing, in magical ritual,
and also through surgery, dentistry, acupuncture, and any
fieldofmedicinethatrequiresmetaltools.Itisalsoaninstru-
ment of death: knives and guns wound and kill.
Earth’s Original Professional
Magician: the Smith, Master of
Fire
MagicinitsmodernstatearrivedwiththeadventoftheIron
Age.Thesmith’sart,theoriginalalchemy,waskeptsecretfor
centuries:thosewhoknewitwereabletoforgeweaponsthat
couldcompletelydominatetheirneighbors.Byvirtueoftheir
contactwiththismagicmaterial,andbecausetheyalonewere
privytoitssecrets,smithsweremorethanjustartisans:they
were the original magicians, the Masters of Fire. Smiths be-
came the first professional magicians (as opposed to sham-
ans), called in to perform spell-casting on behalf of others.
Smiths were simultaneously respected and needed,
feared and persecuted:86/901
• Becausethesmithisinclosecontactwiththeulti-
matepowersubstanceand,infact,bendsittohis
will, he is perceived as possessing more magic
power than the average person. He is protected
and his personal magical energy continually re-
plenished and reinvigorated by iron
• However, because iron ore may be perceived as
Earth’smenstrualblood,asubstancetypicallyre-
stricted or taboo, the ironworker who handles it
openly and constantly may also be perceived as
tainted. On the one hand, the smith is powerful
enoughtobreaktaboosandthrive,butontheoth-
er, this contact makes conservative elements of
society uncomfortable. The smith is able to go
whereotherscannot,performritualsthatothers
cannot: whatever spiritual cleansing or protect-
iveritualsthesmithrequiresforhisownspiritual
survivalandprotectionareunknowntoeveryone
outside the ironworking clan, and thus are
suspect
• Another perception derives from Central Asia’s
Turkish tribes. They believed that raw metals in
generalcamefromEarth’sbowels.Therawma-
terialswereEarth’swasteproducts,whichwould
ultimately develop into finished metal, by itself,
overlongperiodsoftime,iftheywereleftundis-
turbed and buried. The smith’s oven is, thus, a
substituteforEarth’swomb.Thisartificialwomb
givesbirthtometal.TheMasterofFireisthusbe-
lievedtoassertpoweroverTimeasheaccelerates
theprocess.Becauseofthishehashealingpowers
andcanreadthefuture,butheisalsoalwayson
thevergeofspiritualdisaster:diggingoreoutof87/901
the Earth, rooting around in Earth, any kind of
digging is akin to rape. Only the ironworker
knows if and how he can be purified
The ironworker became a much-needed member of society.
Beyond smith craft, he was typically also a healer, herbal
practitioner,dentist,surgeon,bodyartist,andoftenthesole
personpermittedtoperformcircumcisionandthusincharge
ofspiritualinitiation.Hecarvesamulets,devisesrituals,and
conferswiththeSpiritsonbehalfofothers,acombinationar-
tisanshaman.Secretsofmetalworkingwerecarefullyguarded.
Smiths evolved into clans, their techniques into family
secrets.
Theconceptthatonecanpaysomeoneelsetocastaspell
foryouentersmagicaswell.Aprofessionalclassofmagical
practitionerswasborn.Thesmith’swife,thewomanwhohas
sexwiththeMasterofFire,bearshischildren,andmaybehis
professionalassistant,becomestransformedintoapersonof
powerinherownright,typicallyperformingtheroleofherb-
alist, midwife and women’s healer, henna artist (henna also
beingasubstanceassociatedwithmenstrualblood),and,es-
pecially, fortune teller. In some traditional African areas, a
wedding may be delayed until the smith’s wife can arrive to
dress the bride’s hair, provide her henna or otherwise bless
and attend her.
Societal ambivalence toward the smith cannot be em-
phasizedenough;itwilleventuallybeprojectedontomagicit-
self.Thehistoryofironworkingtoagreatextentparallelsthe
historyofmagic working. Althoughthesmithisrequired by
society, he and his family also remain apart and distinct.
Peopleneedthem,theirservicesarenecessary,yetpeopleare
afraidtogetclosetothem,orallowthemtoliveasfullyinteg-
rated members of society. Their very power and skill sets88/901
them apart. The Bible associates ironworkers with the Ken-
ites,descendantsofCain,aJewishtribethatisn’toneofthe
Twelve Tribes of Israel. The most famous Kenite, the other-
wise unarmed woman Jael, kills the fleeing enemy general
Sisera with a hammer, one of the smith’s primary tools.
Ironworkersdevelopedintonomads,travelingfromtown
totown,villagetovillage,stayingaslongastherewaswork,
and then moving on. This is still true in parts of Africa and
WesternAsia.TherearestillBedouintribeswhoawaitthear-
rival of the smith to perform circumcisions.
Complicatingthepictureevenfurtheristhatthesmiths
providing services to the majority culture are frequently
membersofminoritygroups.Itisacomplexrelationshipwith
tremendous potential for tension: the ironworker performs
ritualfunctionsandservesasarepositoryofspiritualknow-
ledge for traditions that he may or may not share.
InEurope,smithcraftisassociatedwithTinkers,Travel-
ers,and,mostespecially,theRomany,whotraveledwiththe
Tatar and Mongol armies, performing metalwork. Romany
culture, as first witnessed by Europeans, is very typical of
ironworkingclans:themenweremetalsmithswhilethewo-
men told fortunes. In rural Africa and Western Asia, smiths
arefrequentlyofJewishorigin,althoughtheirpersonaltradi-
tions may have veered far from conventional Judaism. Per-
secutionoftheEthiopianJewishcommunity,theBetaIsrael,
derivesbothfromtheirreligionandfromtheirtraditionaloc-
cupationasironworkers.TheIneden,smithsassociatedwith
theatleastnominallyMuslimTuareg,arealsobelievedtobe
ofJewishorigin.Distinctclans,theyperformtheroleofgen-
eral handymen for the majority group: blacksmith, jeweler,
armourer, woodworker, healer, herbalist, poet, musician,
singer, and general consultant on spiritual and traditional89/901
matters.EssentialtotraditionalTuaregculture,theyaresim-
ultaneously of low status.
With the coming of Christianity, European ironworkers
would be vilified and identified with the devil, who was fre-
quentlydepictedintheguiseofasmith.Someoftheirtradi-
tionalspiritualpowerremained:intheoriginalGretnaGreen
weddings,thecouplewasabletocrosstheborderfromEng-
land and be married by the smith.
SaintPatrick’sBreastplate,afamousIrishprayerattrib-
utedtothesaint,callsonGodforprotectionagainst“incanta-
tionsoffalseprophets,againsttheblacklawsofpaganism,
against spells of women, smiths and druids, against all
knowledge that is forbidden the human soul.”
Becauseonecansafelyassumethatanymodernmetalhasnot
beenextractedfromEarthusingrespectful,propitiatingspells
and rituals, any new metal with which you work should be
thoroughly cleansed and charged. That said, silver and iron
are both believed to be incorruptible; although they may be
usedforill,malevolentvibrationsshouldnotclingtothemas
they will to other metals or materials.
Metalisincorporatedintoallmannerofspells,fromthe
simpletothecomplex.Metalsteadily,constantlyandconsist-
entlyradiatesitspower:thespell,thus,keepsgoingevenafter
initial human participation is ended. Magic rings, for in-
stance,needtobeinitiallycrafted,charged,andconsecrated
but once this has been done, they radiate their own power,
drawingtowardyouwhatevertheyhavebeenprogrammedto
pull, even as your attention turns elsewhere.
Basic household and farm tools are often incorporated
intomagicspells.Whatweperceiveasmundanewasoncere-
cognized as exceptionally magically charged. The magic re-
mains, it is human perception that changes. Hammers,90/901
knives,andothermetaltoolsaresharedbymanyoccupations.
Theanvilisreservedforthesmithandthusisfullofpower
and sacredness.
An anvil converts to an altar and may be used as such
evenbysomeonewhoisnotasmith.Thatpersonbeginsthe
followingspellatStep3andassumestheroleofthesmithin
Steps 6 and 7.
Anvil Blessing and Magical
Activation Spell
1. Beforetheanvilismade,thesmithpraysandpeti-
tions that it will be reliable, powerful, and will
bring luck.
2. Whentheanviliscomplete,it’shiddenuntilitsac-
tivation ceremony.
3. Theownerofthenewanvilgivesafeastinhonor
of the anvil.
4. Afterdrinkinganddining,theanvilisbroughtout
to receive the crowd’s admiration. Placed in the
center of the table, it becomes an instant altar.
5. A white candle is placed atop the anvil, with an-
other placed at each side, for a total of three
candles.
6. The smith leads prayers that the anvil will bring
healing, prosperity, andbaraka.
7. Thesmithstrikestheanvilforthefirsttime,then
the crowd showers it with offerings—small metal
coins, libations of brandy—so that good fortune
will be shared by all.91/901
Spell-casting Using the
Power of Minerals
“Minerals”includesrocks,crystals,andgemstones.Manyas-
sociatecrystalswithNewAgephilosophy,butgemstonether-
apyandthemagicofmineralsareaboutasoldageasyoucan
possibly get. Modern magic is profoundly influenced by the
powerofiron,butpriortotheIronAgetherewastheStone
Age.
Youthinkyou’veneveraccessedgempower?Mostofus
have,evenifunwittingly.Thediamondringplacedonthefin-
gerofanaffiancedwomanservestoensuresexualfidelityand
relievesexualinhibitions.Jeweledearrings,ofallkinds,offer
protection to a vulnerable threshold of the body. Many an-
thropologists assert that all jewelry originally derives from
amulets.Alongsideshellsandseeds,theearliestjewelrywas
stone. Jewelry may be placed on the body carelessly.
However,ifitiscombinedwithconsciousintent,incantation,
petitionand/orvisualization,somethingassimpleasadorn-
ingthebodybecomesapowerfulmagicspell.Placingaring,a
bracelet or a locket on someone else’s body is potentially a
discreet but very powerful method of casting a spell upon
them.
Crystals are worn, placed upon altars, added to conjure
bags, placed under pillows and used in a wide variety of
spells.Beyondspecificgeologicanalysis,distinctionsbetween
rocks, crystals, and gemstones tend to derive from human
perception of value, with the term “gemstone” implying
greatest value, “plain rock” the least. Of course, what’s92/901
valuablefromafinancialoraestheticperspectivemaynotcor-
respond to magical value.
Everyspecifictypeofmineralformation,likeeachspecif-
icbotanical,hasitsownhiddenpowers,attributes,andgifts.
Likebotanicals,fromamagicalperspectivethemineralking-
dom teems with life. The magical quality that characterizes
the mineral kingdom (to distinguish it from others) is
memory.Stonesarebelievedtoretainmemoriesofeverything
thatoccurstothemorintheirpresence.TheyareEarth’ssi-
lent witness to history.
Because their nature is so different from our own, even
moresothanwithbotanicals,whichareclearlyborn,eat,and
die,itcanbeverydifficulttoperceive minerals asalive.Al-
thoughanyonecanaccessthemagicpowerofcrystalssuperfi-
ciallyjustbytuckingacrystalintoamojohand,inorderto
work closely with them, it’s necessary to acknowledge that
unique memory, that minerals can feel emotions of a kind
(the spectrum runs from loyalty and benevolence to resent-
ment of bad treatment) and can communicate their know-
ledge.Stoneshavenomouths:theycanneverlearntospeak
in the exact manner of a human. However, we can learn to
hear and listen to them.
Onceuponatime,becauseofgreatrespectforminerals’
magic powers and their formidable powers of memory, as
much care, if not more, was taken when gathering
(harvesting) stones as it was with botanicals.
Many cultures perceived stones and metals, not as dis-
tinctproductsofEarthforhumanuse,butliterallyaspartof
MotherEarth’sbody.Stonesareoftenperceivedasherbones
or teeth. From that perspective, great care must be taken
whenextractingandusingthem.Onlycertainpeoplewereau-
thorizedtogatherstones,usingveryspecificpropitiatoryritu-
al. Profound cleansing rituals were undertaken before and93/901
after their harvest. Stones were removed with care and re-
spect.OfferingsandlibationsweregiventoEarthasreciproc-
al payment and compensation.
Perhapsyouhaveaccesstoastonethat’sbeentreasured
foraverylongtime,amuseumpiece,asitwere.Inthatcase,
appropriateritesandcaremayhavebeentaken.Otherwise,it
is fair to assume that the rocks and crystals available today
werenotremovedfromEarthwithloveandcare,butyanked
out brutally and disrespectfully. As crystals have grown in
popularity, the temptation to exploit this popularity for the
purpose of some quick cash frequently outweighs any meta-
physical concerns.
Assumethereforethatcrystalsmayarrivecompletewith
grouchy, resentful attitudes. Furthermore, minerals are the
witnesses of human experience too. Minerals are absorbent,
absorbingsurroundingemotion.Manyminerals,particularly
themostexpensive—diamonds,emeralds,andrubies—areex-
tractedamidstgreathumansuffering.Thestonescarrythese
emotions with them as they travel to your hands.
All is not hopeless, however. Stones may be cleansed.
Cleansing can remove memory stores, like wiping a com-
puter’s memory, allowing for a fresh start. The depth of
memory removal depends upon the stone and the cleansing
methods used.
Stonesneedtobechargedforapurposeortoharmonize
with your personal energy, to enhance your partnership.
To Program or Charge a Crystal
1. Cleanse the crystal using the most suitable
technique.
2. Hold it in your hands.94/901
3. Clear your mind.
4. When you feel that your energy and that of the
crystal are synchronized, state your intention,
goal, or desire clearly, lucidly, and succinctly.
5. Repeat it until it feels right. Speak out loud if
possible.
6. When charging feels complete, put the crystal
downandconsciouslydetachyourattentionfrom
it.
Stonesareusedintheirnaturalstateorpolishedandcut.A
specificstonecanalsobeselectedandthenengravedwitha
specificdesign.Thiscreatesatalisman,whichisthenusually
worn or carried on the body. There are healing talismans,
love-drawing talismans, and protective talismans, among
manyothers.Thispracticebringsmagicintotherealmofpro-
fessionals.Anyonecanfindaspecialstoneonthebeach;not
everyone can engrave a gemstone with accuracy and
precision.
The following ritual for cleansing and activating gem-
stonesforhealingandmagiccomesfromIndia,birthplaceof
extremely sophisticated gemstone therapy.
To Cleanse and Activate a
Gemstone
1. The night before you intend to wear your stone,
immerse it in a cup of fresh milk.
2. Remove it and place the milky stone on an altar,
before a sacred image, in the company of quartz
crystals and any other objects you hold sacred.95/901
3. Leave it overnight.
4. Arise at dawn and rinse the stone.
5. Raise it towards the rising sun.
6. Pray and petition that the stone fulfills your
desires.
7. Wear, carry, or use it as needed.
Diamonds, emeralds, sapphires, and rubies have profound
magical uses as well as their more conventional role in jew-
elry. Both magical and conventional uses, however, are lim-
ited to those who can afford these expensive gems. Luckily,
theabsolutely mostpowerful magic stones are easily afford-
ableand,insomecases,free,ifyoucanonlyfindthem.The
following are some of the most magically powerful stones.
Quartz Crystals
Quartz looks like beautiful sparkling ice. It is believed to be
tied to that watery trinity of lunar/oceanic/female energy.
Clearquartzcrystalsareusedasscryingtools:theyareableto
enhance the psychic ability and magic power of those who
handlethemconsistentlyorwhoareintheirpresence.Like-
wise,quartzcrystalsareusedtoactivateandempowerother
stones or tools. Quartz crystals may be attached to magic
wands.Packquartzcrystalsinwithtarotcards,runes,orany
other magical tools to enhance their power. Quartz crystals
are used for cleansing purposes. Larger specimens left in a
roomhaveavacuumcleanereffectonnegativeenergy,help-
ing to maintain a fresh atmosphere. (Remember to cleanse
thecrystalperiodically,asifthevacuumbagwasfull.)Itisa
protective, empowering stone.96/901
Hag, Witch, Holed, or Holey
Stones
Thesenamesallrefertothesametypeofstone.Holedstones
are exactly as their name describes: small pebbles or stones
withnaturallyoccurringperforations,theyaregiftsfromthe
Earth Mother. They cannot be manufactured. Sometimes
you’lljustfindone:acommonpebblewithahole.Pickitup.
Itisapricelessmagicalgift.Holedstonesprovideenhanced
magic power, protection against malevolent spirits, humans,
andtheEvilEye.Theyarealsousedtoregenerateandprotect
physical vitality. Wear it around your neck or hang it over
your bed so that you can absorb its power while you sleep.
Lodestones
Also known as magnetite, lodestones are magnetic iron ore.
Theyarethemagicalbridgebetweentherealmsofstoneand
iron. They possess transcendentally powerful magic energy.
Lodestones attract and draw good fortune: money, success,
andlove.They’realsousedinhealingrituals:lodestonescan
draw pain from the body in the same manner that they can
draw a lover or money towards you.
Lodestonesmaybeusedindividuallyorinmatchedpairs.
They are perceived to have gender; depending on purpose,
youmayrequireamaleorfemalelodestoneorapair.It’seasi-
ertodeterminethegenderofalodestonethanthatofapara-
keet. Female lodestones are rounded; phallic-looking lode-
stones announce their manhood.97/901
Wherever people have been in contact with lodestones,
theyhaveusedthemmagically.AlexandertheGreatdistrib-
uted lodestones to his troops to protect them from djinn.
Chinesemagicfavorslodestonesasweddingrings,toensure
thehappysurvivalofamarriage.InancientRome,statuesof
VenusandMarswerecarvedfromlodestonesoastobemag-
netically attracted, demonstrating the powerful sexual mag-
netism between the two forces.
Theoriginsoflodestonesareshroudedinmystery.Their
usegoesbacktoancienttimes.Magnetite,theirmorescientif-
ic name, derives from the ancient city of Magnesia, from
whencetheywereoncemined.Lodestonesareapositive,be-
nevolentforce,alwaysusedtodrawgoodfortune.Lodestones,
like the root charm High John the Conqueror, are thus not
toolsforhexing.Theworstthingyoucandowithalodestone
is fail to avail yourself of its power.
ChristianlegendhasitthatthestoneuponwhichChrist’s
body rested for three days following his crucifixion was a
lodestone.ItsmiraculouspropertieswererevealedtoGodfrey
ofBouillonwhenheledtheFirstCrusadetoJerusalem.While
praying in Christ’s Sepulcher a voice whispered to him that
his victory was assured if he’d only carry away a bit of the
stone. He listened to the voice’s advice, which proved true.
However, according tothis legend, thekings whosucceeded
him paid no attention to the stone and therefore the Holy
Land was lost to them.
In addition to memory, lodestones are acknowledged to
possessconsciousness,intelligence,evenwit,andespeciallya
soul. Although any rock or crystal is alive, lodestones are
really alive! Because of this perception, lodestones must be
replenishedconsistentlyby“feeding”(thoughallcrystalsneed
toberechargedperiodically).Nowyoucan’tjustgivealode-
stonealittlebitofyourowndinner,thewayyou’dgiveatreat98/901
toadog.Lodestoneshavetheirownpreferrednutritionalsup-
plement:fineironshot,alsoknownasironfilings,irondust
or,inHoodooparlance,magneticsand.Magneticsandisalso
perceivedaspossessinga“drawing”powerallofitsown,and
is a component of many magic spells, with and without
lodestones.
Feeding Lodestones
Therearevarioustechniquesforfeedinglodestones,depend-
ing upon different traditions.
A Mexican Method
Just like people, lodestones have a working week, but then
need some time off for rest and relaxation.
1. On Friday evening, place lodestones in a glass of
wine, water, or aguardiente (strong liquor), and
leave it there overnight.
2. Remove it from the liquid on Saturday and
sprinkle it with magnetic sand.
3. Let the lodestone rest until Sunday evening or
Monday morning, then send it back to work in a
conjure bag,pocketcharm,orwhatever normally
does for you.99/901
Hoodoo Method
1. Dressthelodestonewithyourchoiceofcondition
oils.Coordinatetheoiltosuityourdesiredresults.
Thusifyouwantthelodestonetodrawanewro-
mance to you, choose a love-drawing oil, like
Come to Me, Lover. Substitute essential oils,
true oils, or sprinkle the lodestone with a few
drops of whiskey or similar beverage.
2. Sprinkle with magnetic sand.
Sometimes, after extensive spellwork or when used to make
Magnet Oil, a lodestone can become excessively drained.
Thefollowingformulasareintendedtofeedadrastically
depleted lodestone:
Overtired Lodestone Spell (1)
1. Anoint the lodestone with olive oil.
2. Placeitinapouchfilledwithdirtforthreedays.
(Crossroads dirt is best, if possible.)
Overtired Lodestone Spell (2)
1. Place the lodestone in a glass, stone, or metal
bowl.
2. Cover it with dirt. (Again crossroads dirt, if pos-
sible, but any dirt will work.)100/901
3. Keep the bowl inside a closed cabinet for three
days.
Gem Elixirs
The power of minerals may also be accessed in liquid form.
This ancient method has been revived by manufacturers of
flower essence remedies. Modern gemstone elixirs are sold
withfloweressenceremediesandusedinthesamemanner.
Commercial preparations are, as of the time of
WARNING!
Be very careful regarding internal use of gem
elixirs. Some crystals may be toxic: do not use
anything internally until you are absolutely sure
that it is safe.
writing, of consistently high quality and provide access to a
greaternumberofgemsataccessiblepricesthanmostpeople
will ever have access to, in a controlled, safe, easy-to-use
manner.
However, this is an ancient technique. Gem elixirs may
also be crafted for oneself.101/901
An Ancient Egyptian Method of
Creating Gem Elixirs
1. Placecrystalsonthegrassandleavethemoutside
overnight.
2. Collect the dew in the morning.
Modern Methods for Crafting Gem
Elixirs
• Fill cut-crystal bottles with spring water. Let
them charge in the sun and/or moonlight. This
water may then be consumed or added to the
bath
• Placethecrystalinpurespringwaterinaglass
bowl. Energize and activate in the sunlight. The
waterabsorbsthecrystal’spowerandvibrations.
Bottle and use as required
Spell-casting Using the
Power of People
Yes,yes,ofcourse,thissoundssoobvious.Everymagicspell
is the product of a person. Without the person’s intent and
direction,magicenergyjustradiatesandisn’tchanneledinto102/901
aspell.However,somemagicspellsdrawuponmorethanthe
energy, desire, and creative properties of one individual.
Noteveryspelliscastalone.Somespellsrequirepartners
and participants. In particular, healing and cleansing spells
must often be done for the person intended to benefit from
thespell.Alwayschooseyourspellpartnerswisely.Theirindi-
vidual magical energy radiates through your spell as power-
fully as that of any botanical, mineral, or element. It’s also
crucial that those who might undermine the success of your
spell, whether willfully orunintentionally, are not chosen as
partners.Choosethosewhosegoalsareinharmonywithyour
own, those who desire your success as much as you do.
Anentire,living,breathingpersonisn’talwaysrequired.Vari-
ouspartsofthehumananatomyarebelievedtoradiatewith
magic power, and just as they perform different anatomical
functions,sodifferentpartsofthebodyperformdifferentma-
gic spell functions. Typically, the power of the body part is
represented symbolically through an image of the particular
part:thepowerofimagesisanimportantcomponentofma-
gicspells,andthemilagroisametalcharmdepictingaspecif-
icpartoftheanatomy.Themostcommonlydepictedpartsof
thehumanbodyincludetheeyes,genitals,hands,andhearts.
Theseareespeciallyincorporatedintohealingandprotective
spells.
Sometimes,however,actualpartsarerequiredbyspells,
although“part”maybethewrongword.Nopainisinflicted
obtainingthesepartsalthoughtheymaybeobtainedforthe
purposeofinflictingpain.Certainmaterialsgeneratedbythe
bodyareperceivedasexceptionallymagicallycharged.These
materials,whichthebodysheds,stillretaintheessenceofthe
body and a connection to the person they come from. By
working on these materials, one may profoundly affect that103/901
otherperson.Thesematerialsaretheintimateitemsderiving
from a person’s body. Hoodoo refers to them as personal
concerns.
Becausetheyrendertheotherpersonvulnerabletoma-
gic,intheory,alltheseintimateitemsmaybeusedforhexes.
However, that is not their only or even their most frequent
purpose.
Hair
Mostfrequentlyusedinloveandbindingspells,hairisboth
an object of tremendous power and vulnerability.
Menstrual Blood
Menstrualbloodistheultimatemagicpoweritem.Ifyouwere
forcedtoreducemagictoitsmostprimalelements,youwould
be left with menstrual blood and iron (which may be per-
ceived as Earth’s menstrual blood).
Menstrual blood is the ultimate controlling mechanism.
Itprovidesspiritualprotection,allegedlyrepelsdemons,and
putsoutfires.Onedropissaidtocauseotherstofallmadlyin
love with you.
Many consider that oppression and discrimination
against women stems from perceptions of menstruation as
“unclean.”Analternativeviewisthatoppressionanddiscrim-
ination stem from the fear of women’s power. Menstrual
bloodisconsideredthestrongestmagicalsubstanceonEarth.
Menstruating women were isolated because of fear of their
power. Until recently, for instance, in parts of Thailand,104/901
women were discouraged from riding on the top level of
double-decker buses because that would place their genitals
abovemen’sheads,potentiallydestroyingtheirpoweraswell
asthatoftheiramulets.Therearesomewhofeelthatallma-
gicstemsfrommenstrualandlunarmysteries.JudyGrahn’s
bookBlood,BreadandRosespostulatesthatallhumancivil-
ization stems from responses to perceptions of menstruation.
Menstruation may be referred to as a woman’s moon-
time, indicating that menstrual cycles, pregnancy, and tides
allreflectthephasesofthemoon.It’salsosometimescalled
dragon-time,thedragonbeingametaphorformenstruation
(whichopensupnewpathstoponderwhenconsideringtales
ofdragon-slayingheroes,especiallythoseattemptingtosave
virginal princesses).
Youdon’thaveany?Youusedtobeabletobuymenstrual
blood. In ancient Italy, spiritual goods merchants sold used
menstrual rags to those who couldn’t provide their own.
Nail Clippings
Theseareusedinasimilarwaytohair,howeverwithslightly
lessimpact.Frequentlytheyareusedtogether,eachtorein-
force the power of the other.
Saliva
Salivahasprofoundcontrollingandprotectivemagicalcapa-
cities.Likemenstrualblood,salivaisbelievedcapableofre-
pellingmalevolentspiritsandmagicspells,hencethecustom105/901
ofspittinginthefaceofperceiveddanger.Salivaisalsoused
magically to transmit desire.
Sexual Fluids
Maleandfemalesexualfluidsareconsideredintimateitems
of extreme power and vulnerability. Although these sexual
fluids leave you vulnerable to the most notorious of love
spells, they also have other uses. Semen is often invoked in
healingspells(topicalapplicationallegedlycuresheadaches),
whilewomen’ssexualjuicesprovideaccesstothelife-force:it
wasnotanuncommoningredientinancientChinesealchem-
ists’ potions. Women’s vaginal secretions, both sexual juices
and menstrual blood, were frequently the preferred food for
vampires seeking increased sexual vitality and/or life-force.
Sweat
Sweatismostfrequentlyusedinloveandsexspells.Itisthe
closest natural substance men possess that compares to the
magical power of menstrual blood.
Urine
While hair and nail clippings used in spells most frequently
derive from another person, urine is almost inevitably your
own. Many spells will instruct you to urinate on something.
Thisisnotintendedasdesecration,moreinthefashionofa106/901
dogmarkingterritory.Urineisbelievedtocreateadominat-
ing effect.
There are plenty of spells involving fecal material, too.
However,youwon’tfindtheminthisbook.Everyauthorhas
herlimits.TheancientEgyptianscultivatedasciencethatdis-
tinguishedbetweenthepowersinherentinthefecalmaterial
of various species—crocodiles, donkeys, humans, cats, all
sorts of animals.
Casting Spells Using Names
Themagicalperspectivedoesnotalwayscorrespondwiththe
modernscientificviewastowhatconstitutesthehumanbody,
or where it begins and ends. Most magical systems
acknowledge
WARNING!
Spells involving intimate items may rank among
the oldest in the worldwide magical repertoire.
For this very reason, however, they may reflect a
different world with different dangers. Magic is al-
ways about improving life and circumstances. Be-
have responsibly. If you possess any physical
condition (HIV, hepatitis, or anything else) that
could be passed on by these substances, then
these spells are plainly not for you.107/901
the existence of a subtle body, the aura, a radiant presence
that surrounds the human body, so far undetectable by sci-
ence.Aperson’snameornamesmayalsobeconsideredma-
gicallyaspartofanindividual’sintrinsicidentityandthusa
source of great power and vulnerability.
Knowing someone’s true name renders him or her vul-
nerable to your power. Think about Rumpelstiltskin. Once
uponatime(anditstillhappensinsomeplaces),peoplewere
given various names, one for public use, one for ritual use,
andanothertobekeptsecret.Motherswouldwhispernames
intotheirbabies’ears,nevertoberepeated,sothatonename
would always be kept secret. In ancient Egypt, to describe
someonepossessingexceptionalmagicpoweritwassaidthat
even their mother didn’t know their name.
Thatconnectionbetweennameandmotheriscrucialma-
gically. As the ancient world became increasingly male-ori-
ented, patriarchal cultures identified people by their own
name and their father’s name, so that someone might be
called,forinstance,Dana,childofBill.Themotherisrarely
mentioned. There’s one important exception: magic spells
and magical documents. There, it’s the mother’s name that
counts. Many consider that this reflects some sardonic hu-
mor;forthemagicalspelltobeeffective,thenamehastobe
right. Because a mother is never suspect but may however
harbor unsuspected secrets, the only way to guarantee true
identitywastousethemother’snameinsteadofthefather’s.
Thistraditionismaintainedinthedirectionsinthisbook;fol-
low it if you choose. Unless otherwise advised, the magical
formulatowriteorcallsomeone’snameis:“[Name],childof
[their mother’s name].”108/901
Names of Power
Angels, demons, and spirits of all kinds are summoned by
callingtheirtruename.Supposedlytheycan’tresistthecall.
Much summoning magic depends upon this premise.
Of course, there is a caveat; this information was once
transmittedorally:tobeeffectivethenamesaresupposedto
bepronouncedcorrectly.Onehasonlytoobservetheconflict
betweenhistorians,magicalpractitioners,andscholarsofall
kinds over how the names of relatively famous Greek and
Egyptian deities are pronounced to appreciate the inherent
problem.
Thereisastyleofspell-castingthatincorporatesreeling
offseriesofmagicalnames.TheMagicalPapyrihavesomeof
thesespells:there’snothingtoindicatethatthepractitioners
of their time recognized these names any more than we do.
Theydon’tfigureinsurviving mythology;thesenamescom-
pletely lack context.
Call me cautious, but I’m not comfortable summoning
someonetoentermyhome(andlife)ifI’mnotpersonallyfa-
miliarwiththem,oratleasthavealittlebackgroundinforma-
tion.Somethingaboutnottalkingtostrangers.Iwouldn’tre-
commend it to you either. Where the original version of a
spellveersoffonatangentofrecitingalonglistofNamesof
Power,I’veindicatedthisbutomittedthenames.Myrecom-
mendationistoinsertyourownNamesofPower—thoseSpir-
its whom you trust, ancestral spirits, even perhaps living
peoplewhoseassistancewouldbeappreciatedandwhomyou
feel you can trust.109/901
Spell-casting Using the
Power of Planets
Becausethey’reoldsystemsthatpre-datemodernastronomy,
inmagicalandastrologicalparlance,theluminaries,thesun
andthemoon,areconsideredplanetsjustlikeotherheavenly
bodies,althoughthisdoesnotconcurwithmodernscientific
classifications.Modernastrologersknowthattechnicallythe
sun and moon are not planets, however both astrology and
magicaregeocentricsystems,meaningthateverythingisper-
ceivedasrevolvingaroundEarth,evenwhenthisisnotliter-
ally the case.
Some spell-casters rely heavily on astrological wisdom.
Everyday,everyhour,everytopic,everycategoryhasaplan-
etary correspondence. The same applies to Chinese and
Hindu magic, although their respective astrological systems
differfromtheWesternsystem,whichisbasedontheBabylo-
nian astrology that so influenced Egyptian and Greek
versions.
If you would like to synchronize your magic with the
planets to this degree, information is easily obtainable from
astrological sources and from many traditional grimoires.
Everyplanetpossessesanastrologicalandmagicalinflu-
ence(ancientGreekandRomancursetabletswereunderthe
dominionofSaturn,forinstance),howevertheplanetsmost
strongly identified with magic are our own, Earth, and its
satellite, the Moon.110/901
Earth
Whilethemoonrepresentspsychicability,thenEarthisour
general vitality. Both are required for optimal magic power.
According to many worldwide traditions with little else in
common, Earth is the material from which humans are cre-
ated.Earthisourmother:wearebornfromherbody,andare
thenreturnedtohertoawaitrebirthwhilethecorporalbody
decaysandbecomespartofEarthoncemore,inanever-end-
ingcycle.Withoutactualextendedconsistentphysicalcontact
with Earth our vitality, and hence our magic power, suffers
and diminishes.
Earth is also very literally the dirt under our feet. Dirt
may be used to empower us and empower our spells. There
are various traditions that pursue actual physical healing by
packingthepatientintoheatedsand.Moormudisusedtode-
toxifythebody.Thedirtatshrinesandsaints’tombsisper-
ceived as exceptionally charged with power. Bits of dirt are
carriedastalismans;theymayalsobesprinkledoveritemsto
empower and revitalize them.
Notalldirtisequal.Currentlyperhapsthemostfamous
dirt in the world comes from the Roman Catholic shrine at
Chimayo,NewMexico,althoughthedirt’smiraculousreputa-
tion precedes Catholicism in the area. Every year thousands
convergeonChimayoforthehealingdirt.Atestimonialroom
bearswitnesstomiraclesreceived.Thisdirthealsmorethan
bodyandsoul.Whenagoodfriend’scomputercrashed,ather
wit’send,sheplacedacanisterfilledwithChimayodirtonthe
computer and it miraculously started working again.
Certainmagicaltraditionsrelyonthepowerofdirtmore
than others. In the twenty-first century, the Afro-Caribbean
tradition of Palo Monte probably utilizes more types of dirt111/901
thananyother.Palospellsmayrequestfourhandfulsofdirt
from a police station, two from a courthouse, three from a
hospital,andsoon.Thismagicaltraditiondatesbackatleast
to ancient Mesopotamia.
Althoughnoteverytraditionpayssuchdetailedattention
to Earth, most utilize certain specific types of magical dirt,
including:
• Crossroads dirt
• Footprint dirt
• Graveyard dirt
Inherentenergyistransmittedthroughcontactwiththedirt
itself.Eachwillbediscussedingreaterdetailelsewhereinthis
book.
The Moon
Themoonisconsideredtherulerofallmagicalarts,andma-
gic is timed to the phases of the moon:
• Spells intended to increase something (like
money),orintendedtoinitiatesomethingnew(a
freshromance)arecoordinatedwiththewaxing
moon.BeginthesespellsonorjustaftertheNew
Moon
• Spellsintendedtodecreasesomething(likedebt),
or cast for the purpose of banishing (an enemy)
are coordinated with the waning moon. Begin
these spells on or just after the Full Moon
• TheDarkoftheMoon,thosefewdayswherethe
moonisnotvisible,justpriortotherebirthofthe112/901
NewMoon,iscontroversial.Sometraditionswill
notcastspellsduringthisperiod.Others,particu-
larlythosedevotedtoDarkMoonspiritslikeHec-
ate or Lilith, consider this a period of profound
magical power which may be exploited as needed
InArabicfolkcustom,it’srecommendedthatyoukeepaneye
onmoonphases.Whateveryoufindyourselfdoingatthemo-
mentwhenyoufirstcatchaglimpseofthebrandnewmoonis
the right thing for you to do.
Although it doesn’t eliminate the need to charge items with
personalenergy,exposingvirtuallyallmagicaltools,charms,
andpreparationstothebeamsoftheFullMoonprovidesen-
hanced magical empowerment.
In general, although not always, magic worked with the
moonherself(ratherthanjustbytimingviathephases)iswo-
men’smagic.Thereisatrinitybetweenthemoon,women,the
oceanand,byimplication,allwater.Themoonisrecognized
as having a profound effect upon menstrual cycles and the
tides.Itisareciprocalarrangement:sincewomenhaveanat-
uralaffinityforthemoon,theymaymorereadilydrawonits
power.
Inmanycaseslunardeitiesarefemale,withArtemis,Di-
ana,Hecate,Selene,LadyChang’o,andIxChelonlyafewof
manyexamples.Inothercases,particularlyinancientEgypt,
themoonwasperceivedasmale,butthisperceptionwaspre-
cisely because of the moon’s perceived influence on women.
Themoonwasseenasplayingamalerole.TotheEgyptians,
themoonwasmalebecauseitwasdemonstratedtohavepro-
found control over women’s fertility. It was believed that
pregnancy could occur from exposure to moonbeams, and
who else gets a woman pregnant but a man?113/901
Drawing Down the Moon
ThistermismostfamiliartodayasthetitleofMargotAdler’s
influential book, and refers to specific Wiccan spiritual rites
by which the Goddess is requested to enter the body of her
priestess and speak through her. (Some traditions also pos-
sess a parallel Drawing Down the Sun ritual, which invokes
themaleenergy ofthegod.)However, thisisaveryancient
term that predates modern Wicca and may refer to various
other rites or practices, depending upon magical tradition,
and most especially the process of creating moon-infused
waters.
Moon-infused Waters
TheancientGreekscalledthistechnique“drawingdownthe
moon” or the “Thessalian Trick.” The Greeks believed that
Thessalianwitchesheldgreatpowerandmetaphysicalknow-
ledge. This was considered one of their most important
formulas.
ThisChinesetechniqueofdrawingdownthemoonisusedto
create a magic mirror:
Lunar-charged Magic Mirror
A small round mirror is required, ideally one crafted from
preciousmetalssuchasgoldorsilverandornamentedwith
auspicious symbols of protection and good fortune.114/901
1. OnthenightoftheFullMoon,holdthemirrorso
that it reflects the moon for a minimum of three
hours.
2. When you feel that sufficient lunar energy has
been absorbed, wrap the mirror in a protective
fabric pouch. This mirror is now off limits to
everyonebutitsowner.Althoughonepersonmay
prepare this mirror for another, once given, the
mirrorbelongstoonepersonexclusively.There-
mainingstepsofthisspellmustonlybeperformed
by the mirror’s owner.
3. Forthenextconsecutivefifteennights,reflectyour
faceinthemirroroversubstantialblocksoftime,
sothattheabsorbedlunarpowermergeswithyour
own.Thisisaninteractiveprocess,asharingofes-
sences:gazingintothemirror,youabsorbthelun-
ar gifts of radiance, beauty, psychic ability, and
fertility,butthemirrorsimultaneouslyisimprin-
ted with your personal power and desires.
4. When the fifteen-night period is complete, the
mirrorisconsideredchargedandinharmonywith
the individual who owns it. It is now a profound
magical tool for obtaining your wishes and desires.
Tousethemirrorrepeattheinitialritualofdrawingdownthe
Full Moon, but now use the mirror as a direct communica-
tions device, a sort of personal hot line to the moon, to re-
questgiftsoflove,marriage,psychicpower,creativeinspira-
tion, personal fertility, or healing.115/901
Spell-casting in
Conjunction with the
Power and Assistance
of the Spirits
Thisstyleofspell-castingisunique.Inothermethodsofspell-
casting,thepractitionercaststheentirespellfrombeginning
toend.Spirit-orientedspellsinvolveinducing,persuading,or
coercing a powerful Spirit, usually a specialist in a field, to
performthemagicalactionforyou,onyourbehalf.Thusyour
spelliscastinordertopersuadetheSpirittocastthecrucial
spell or create the needed magical energy transaction.
Thisareaofmagicveersdangerouslyclosetoreligionand
sometimescannotbeseparated.Insomecases,magicalprac-
tices are what remain of what were once formal and some-
times very important religions. It is worth-while, when con-
sidering the permanence of modern religions, to recall that
organized worship of Isis, for instance, was not limited to
Egypt but eventually expanded further south in Africa,
throughout Western Asia and into Europe as far as what is
nowmodernLondon,andspannedaperiodofseveralthou-
sand years.
Spiritsworshippedinreligionas“gods”and“goddesses”
areincorporatedintomagicspells.Thereisacrucialdistinc-
tionbetweenmagicandreligionthough:religionmayinvolve
devotiontoandworshipofthesespiritualentities.Magicin-
variably requests a reciprocal, cooperative relationship, al-
thoughitmaybearelationshipcharacterizedbylove,respect,116/901
and awe. Both spirit and human are perceived as having
needs, which, ideally, are mutually fulfilled by a successful
magic spell.
Ultimatelythemostpotent,powerfulmagicderivesfrom
spiritualpartnership,workingwithguardianandalliedspir-
its.Thisisalsoformanythemostchallenging,hardtoaccess
andbelievemagic,becauseitdoesn’tfeelrealtomanypeople.
It may be hard to believe or comprehend that a rock has a
memory, but at least you can hold the rock in your hand.
When you’re working with spirits, are you actually working
with anything or is this all just the stuff of myth, fairy tale,
and make-believe?
Discussions about finding the goddess within, although
perhaps extremely valuable from a spiritual or therapeutic
perspective,presentafurthermagicalobstacle.Ifthegoddess
(and,byprojection,anyothermagicpower)istrulyanaspect
of oneself, why bother with any of the physical materials at
all?Magicspellsare,ingeneral,apartnershipbetweeninner
andouterpowers—powersthatarepartofyou,andthosethat
are distinctly independent from you.
Ourlimitedwordpoolalsocompoundstheproblem.Be-
causeweapproachspiritualityliterally,wealsoapproachreli-
gion. Seemingly neutral simple terms like god and goddess
areactuallyhighlychargedwithpersonalmeaningandreson-
ance. We think that when we use these terms we are all on
commonground,butthat’snotnecessarilyso.Someusethese
terms to indicate supreme creators of the world; others use
thetermsforanytypeofspiritualentity.Sotoleveltheplay-
ingfield,let’sjustusethetermspiritstonamethosepowerful
entities that resist human efforts to define them.
Like magic in general, every people, every culture on
Earth,hasatonetimeoranotherpracticedsomesortofspir-
itual interaction. Although it might be suggested today that117/901
someone claiming to have personal contact with spirits re-
ceivepsychiatriccounseling,atonetimethiswasacommon,
if never commonplace, human experience.
Spiritualcommunicationsofallkinds,butespeciallythe
variousmethodsofrequestingspiritualparticipationinmagic
spells, exist in very consistent ways all around Earth.
Ifthisseemsunrealtoyouorif,basedonreligiousback-
ground, you perceive that contact with spirits is potentially
evil, there’s good news. Although this is a powerful form of
magic, it’s easily avoided. Simply skip these spells and find
others. Hoodoo, some of the most powerful magic of all, is
practical magic devoid of spiritual encounters, as are many
othersystems.Workwithwhatempowersyouandmakesyou
feel comfortable. On the other hand, if you are devoted to a
spirit, you may incorporate spiritual petition into virtually
every spell.
There is a host of spirits, legions. There are spirits to
serveeverypurpose,andspiritswithavestedinterestinevery
topic. In addition to love spirits, protective spirits, healing
spirits,etc.,therearespiritsofthebathroom,beer,andper-
fume.Ifsomethingcanbeconceived,thenthereisatleastone
spirit attached to it.
Whydotheyassistusorevenpayattentiontous?Fora
variety of reasons, which ultimately may depend upon the
natureoftheparticularspiritinquestion.Somearebenevol-
ent in general, some may have affection for you specifically;
however the basic answer is because it is their job to do so.
Dentists take care of teeth, doctors treat the ill, and spirits
havetheirowndepartmentofexpertise.Itisthusimportant
to petition the correct spirit for a specific purpose, although
thespiritswhoworkmostconsistentlyandpowerfullyforyou
arealwaysyourpersonalguardiansandalliesaswellasyour
ancestral spirits.118/901
One person’s guardian angel can be someone else’s de-
mon:ICorinthians10:20describesPagansacrificesasbeing
madetodemons.ThePaganswouldhavedisagreedwiththat
assessment. Many of the spirits invoked in magic may seem
obscure today, however once upon a time they were huge
starsofthespiritualfirmament.TheemergenceofChristian-
ity and Islam demoted many once-renowned spirits to the
side-lines. This does not diminish their potential power. If
you’re willing tobelieve that aspirit has the power toassist
you,thenthatspiritshouldbetreatedwithrespectandcon-
sideration.Neverunderestimatethepowerofeventhelowest-
level spiritual entity. Furthermore, other spirits, depending
uponspiritualtradition,aremorevitalandempoweredtoday
than ever before.
Atbest,thishuman/spiritalliancecreatesmutuallybene-
ficial relationships of great affection, love, and devotion.
Thereissomethingofabarterrelationshipinvolved:wefeed
the spirits and they care for us, so that we may feed them
moreandtheymaycareforusmore.Thekeytothisrelation-
ship,evenmorethananyotherkindofmagic,isreciprocity.
Makeanofferingwhenyoumakearequest.Respondwithan
acknowledgement of thanks when the request is fulfilled,
whetherbyprayer,gesture,orthroughagiftoroffering.Spir-
its, like people, possess preferences. These practices stem
backthousandsofyears;there’satremendousquantityofac-
cumulatedwisdom.It’snotnecessarytofigureeverythingout
for yourself, although intuition may be divinely inspired.119/901
Spirit Categories
Angels
Angel literally translates as “messenger” in Greek, a direct
translationfromtheHebrew.Unlikeothercategoriesofspir-
its,angelsdonotaccept“offerings,”oratleastnotofficially.
Theyarecustomarilycalledthroughprayer,petition,andfra-
grance,althoughHighRitualMagic,basedlargelyoninform-
ationattributedtoKingSolomon,compelsthepresenceofan-
gels through sigils and talismans.
Specific angels maintain charge of all matters of life.
ThereisanAngelofConception,theAngelofThieves,angels
ofvariousspecificcountries,andindividualguardianangels.
AccordingtotheTalmud,thereareeleventhousandguardian
angels per person. If you can think of it, it has a custodial
agent.
Ingeneral,theyaredynamicandfierce;creaturesoflight
soblindingyoucan’thelpbutseethemevenwithyoureyes
closed. According to Jewish mysticism, angels are beings of
light,butwhenanangelwishestomanifestinphysicalform,
it takes earth, fashions clothing from it, and transforms itself.
Angels are discussed before other spiritual entities be-
causetheyaresomewhatdifferent fromothers,andbecause
(accordingtoIslamicandJewishtraditions),angelsareper-
sonally responsible for humanity’s ability to cast spells. The
Creator may have created magic power but angels taught
people how to recognize it and what to do with it. They are
our magical teachers.
Christianmagic,reflectingtheology,demandstheexistenceof
angels as creatures of pure goodness (with the exception of120/901
the fallen angels, who essentially lost their status as angels
during the Fall), in clear opposition to demons, who are
plainly “bad.” This is not the case in Islamic, Jewish, and
Pagan perceptions, where angels are just beings of power.
Therearegoodangels,“evilangels,”andangelswhomaybe
persuadedtobehaveineitherdirection.Piousdescriptionsof
“good”angelsinsistthattheyareasexualandgender-less,al-
thoughironicallythisisinoppositiontotheBible,whichde-
scribesthelustangelsfeelforhumanwomen(Genesis6:1–4).
Becausethesewomenconceivechildren,wecanassumethese
particular angels to have been male with all working parts
intact.
Insteadofcourtingthesehumanwomenwithchocolates
androses,theangelsbestowedthegiftofknowledge—teach-
ingtheartsofastrology,magic,witchcraft,andcosmetics(not
thetrivialityitmayappeartodaybutanancientmagicalart).
According to the Book of Enoch these teaching angels and
their subjects included:
• Semjaza: enchantments and root cutting
• Armaros: the resolving of enchantment
• Baraquiel: astrology
• Kokabel: constellations
• Ezequeel: knowledge of the clouds
• Araquiel: earth signs
• Shamsiel: sun signs
• Sariel: the phases of the moon
Angels are ranked in various manners: Archangels, Throne
Angels, Watchers, Seraphim, and Cherubim among others.
Thearchangelscommandspirithosts.Variousspellsrequest
assistance from the archangels, however whether they are121/901
personally expected to appear or to delegate another from
their host may be subject to interpretation.
There’slittleagreementamongexpertsortraditions,par-
ticularlyasregardstothearchangels.Aretheresevenorare
there four? And which ones are they?
The standard four archangels are Rafael, Gabriel, Mi-
chael, and Auriel, also spelled Uriel or Ariel. That much, at
least,isagreeduponinChristian,Islamic,andJewishtradi-
tions, and probably pre-dates all three. But do they serve
alone or are there really seven archangels, corresponding to
thesevenplanetsvisiblewiththenakedeyeandtothatmagic
number, seven? If that’s the case, who are the other three?
Some possibilities include Cassiel/ Kafziel, Zadkiel, Samael,
Chamuel, Jophiel, Raziel, Metatron, and Iblis. Even Lucifer
makes it onto some lists, although obviously he loses his
status after his Fall. (Most angels, but not all, have names
endingwith“-el,”Elbeingtheancientpan-Semiticnamefor
the Creator, literally “the Lord.”)
Demons
Demons are most frequently understood to be evil spirits.
Thisisamisnomer,aperhapsdeliberatemisinterpretationof
the Greek “daemon,” which merely indicates one’s personal
guardianspirit,whomaybebenevolent,malevolent,orboth,
asthecase may be.With theemergence ofChristianity asa
power,anyspiritinteractionbeyondwhatwasauthorizedby
the Church was perceived as evil. Thus the daemon, once a
partofone’spersonalityandexistence,wastransformedinto
the demonic.
The word “demon” is frequently understood, within the
context of the classical grimoires, to indicate a low-level122/901
malevolentspiritualentityanditisusedinthatcontextwithin
thisbook.Ingeneraltheselow-levelentitiesareanonymous,
jealous, maliciously mischievous, and stupid.
Orisha and Lwa
These very similar spirit beings emanate from West Africa.
TheorishaderivefromYorubaland,partofmodernNigeria.
The lwa derive from Fon traditions in Dahomey/Benin.
“Vodou” means “spirit” in the Fon language.
Adoredintheirhomelandsforthousandsofyears,these
spiritsaccompaniedtheirenslaveddevoteestotheWest.Tra-
ditional African religions were outlawed under slavery, de-
votees were persecuted, and the spirits were driven under-
ground,buttheywerenotforgotten.Insteadtheyemergedin
greatprominenceinthelatterpartofthetwentiethcenturyas
the foundation of increasingly prominent and influential
African-derived spiritual traditions.
The orisha are the presiding spirits of the Santeria reli-
gion as well as the Afro-Brazilian cults, such as Candomble,
Umbanda,andQuimbanda.ThePortuguesespellingisorixa;
manyofthesamespiritsareprominentamongthedifferent
cults.Theirnamesmaybespelleddifferently,sometimesthe
samespiritsusedifferentnames,theirpersonalitiesmayeven
manifestslightlydifferentlydependinguponlocation,butun-
derneath their basic nature remains the same. For instance
Oya, spirit of storm winds and the Niger River retains that
nameinCubabutisknownasIansainBrazil.Hermythology
and basic personality remain the same.
ThelwaarethepresidingspiritsofHaitianVodouaswell
as its descendants, New Orleans Voodoo and Dominican
Vodo.(LwaisthemodernKreyolspelling;olderFrenchtexts123/901
mayusethetermloa.)Althoughthereisanentirelydifferent
pantheonofspirits,afewarecommontobothtraditionsand
the behavior and manifestations of orisha and lwa are similar.
The influence of a few spirits was particularly well dis-
tributed in Africa and thus they are common to virtually all
African Diaspora traditions. This refers particularly to the
tricksterMasteroftheCrossroads,Eshu-Elegbara,andOgun,
spirit and embodiment of iron. Although their names may
varydependinguponlocation—particularlythatofEshuwho,
by nature, enjoys tricks, illusion, and confusion—their core
essence remains consistent.
Conventional wisdom has it that there are thousands of
orisha,butonlyapproximatelyfortyhaveanyinterestordeal-
ingswithpeople.Theseforty,however,arepassionatelyinter-
ested and involved with humans.
The official, formal African-derived religions, Santeria
and Vodou in particular, continue toexpand, attracting new
devotees. The orisha and lwa, in addition, are gregarious
powers. They’re eager to work, eager for attention. Because
they are constantly fed, they’re full of energy. They will also
work with independent practitioners and have been assimil-
ated into some Wiccan, Pagan, and Goddess traditions.
However, ritual possession, the spirit’s use of a person as a
medium,commontoavastnumberoftraditionsworldwide,
onlyoccursintheformal,officialsetting,asitshould.These
are extremely powerful, potentially dangerous practices that
shouldnotbeattemptedbythenovice,theunsupervised,or
theunitiated.Ritualpossessionisashamanicart,notamagic
spell.
Thereisaformal,lucid,structuredwayofworkingwith
theorishaandlwa,whichservesasanexcellentmodelforany
spiritual interaction. Vodou and Santeria are monotheistic
faiths:thereisasupremedeitywhocreatedallofexistence.124/901
Thiscreator,however,preferstobeanoverseer.Olodumare,
theYorubaequivalentofGod,createdtheorishaspiritstosu-
pervisecreation.Eachorishaorlwaisresponsibleforcertain
departmentsoflife.Converselyeveryareaoflifehasitsown
presiding orisha or lwa. Each individual person also has
presiding orisha or lwa, typically a male and a female, the
“masters of your head.” They are your patrons, protectors,
and advocates—providing you don’t anger them too much.
Eachorishaandlwahasadistinctpersonality.Eachhasa
color,number,specialfoods,plants,andobjectsinwhichthey
recognizethemselves.Attracttheirattentionbymanipulating
thesethings:thusspellsinvokingthepowerofOshun,Spirit
ofLoveandBeauty,inevitablydrawuponthecoloryellow,the
numberfive,water,cinnamon,andhoney,allofwhichshare
Oshun’sessence.PetitionstoOyadrawuponthecolorpurple
andthenumbernine.Thespiritswillcommunicatewithyou
with these colors, numbers, and items as well. In general,
whenspiritsperformaserviceforyou,theywantthecredit.
They will attempt to let you know that they have accom-
plishedthemiracleorthemagicasthecasemaybe.Thissys-
tem may be used to effectively communicate with spirits of
other pantheons as well.
The orisha most involved in human every-day matters
are sometimes invoked as a group and known as the Seven
African Powers:
1. Elegba
2. Ogun
3. Obatala
4. Oshun
5. EitherOyaorOrunmila,dependingonindividual
tradition
6. Chango125/901
7. Yemaya
By petitioning the orisha as a group, you may rest assured
that all your bases are covered. The Seven African Powers
provide all of Earth’s potential blessings and protections.
Commercially manufactured Seven African Powers products
frequentlydepictthemintheirguiseasRomanCatholicsaints
(see Identification/Syncretism, pages 90–3).
The Exus and Exuas (Pomba
Giras)
(Singular, exu and exua, pronounced “Eh-shoo” and “Eh-
shoo-ah.”)
TheWestAfricantricksterorishaEshu-Elegbaraistradi-
tionallythefirstspiritpetitionedduringaritualorspell.Be-
causehecontrolsalldoorsandtheaccesstoroads,Eshude-
termines whetheryourpetition willbeblockedorwillreach
the proper ears. Similar to the Greek god Hermes, devotees
contact himfirst,propitiate him,thenrequest thatheinvite
andescortanyotherdesiredspirits.Althoughsometraditions
encourageeveryonetosimplycontactwhomtheypleasedir-
ectly, others consider this initial communication with a gate
guardian to be proper spiritual protocol.
Eshu, more than most, manifests different aspects of
himselfindifferentplacesandtodifferentpeople.Butthen,
heisatrickster.InhisoriginalWestAfricanincarnation,he’s
youngandhandsome,alwaysreadyforsexandromance.In
theWesternhemisphere,herarelydisplaysthissideofhim-
self, usually appearing as a deceptively frail old man with a
cane or as a young, rambunctious, playful child.126/901
In Brazil, Eshu transformed into a completely different
typeofspirit,intoaclassallhisown,theexus,multipleper-
sonalities, distinct from the other orixa (orisha). Powerful,
volatile, and dangerous, the exus emphasize the extreme
trickster aspects of the spirit. Because an exu is closer in
naturetohumansthantheotherorixa,heisthespiritmost
frequentlyappealedtoformundanematters,likemoneyand
love.
By definition, Afro-Brazilian spiritual paths possess this
concept of exu.
Each orixa possesses his or her own exu, who serves as
the orixa’s personal messenger.
Confused? The confusion only increases.
Thereareamultiplicityofexus,eachwithaslightlydif-
ferentnatureandslightlydifferentrole.Therearealsofemale
exus,theexuas,exceptthatthattermisrarelyused.Thefe-
maleaspectsofexusareinsteadknownasthePombaGiras,
thewhirlingdoves.Despitethefactthatthesetraditionsare
grounded strongly in West African spirituality, and despite
thefactthatexus,inparticular,clearlyderivefromAfrica,the
PombaGirasarenotcompletelyAfrican.Rathertheyseemto
represent a merging of African traditions with those of the
Portuguese Romany, deported en masse to the Brazilian
colonies,concurrentwiththeAfricanslavetrade.Thepre-em-
inentPombaGira,MariaPadilha,isadeifiedformerQueenof
Spain,alsoknowninEuropeanmagicspells.Thesuperficial
imageofthePombaGira,atleast,haslittletodowiththehis-
toricMariadePadilla,wifeofPedrotheFirstofCastileand
Leon,butderivesfromwhatisatbestanoutsider’sromantic
fantasy of Gypsy women and, at worst, an embodiment of
every clichéd, negative stereotype: a promiscuous, hard-
drinkingprostitute/fortune-tellerwitharazorhiddeninher
cheek, a rose clenched between her teeth.127/901
Inadditiontotheirfunctionasmessengersandservants
oftheorixa,exusandPombaGirasmayalsobepetitionedin-
dependently,specificallyformoreselfish,malevolentformsof
magic in which the orixa may refuse to participate.
ExusandPombaGirasarefrequentlyperceivedasdan-
gerous and volatile, although this is somewhat in the eye of
the beholder. Those who approach exus and Pomba Giras
fromapurelyAfricanorPaganperspectivewillfindthemno
more or less volatile than any other spirit. Maria Padilha
PombaGira,inparticular,canbeabeingofgreatpowerand
generosity. Becausemanydevoteesarealsoeitherdevoutor
lapsedRomanCatholics,thereisofteninherentambivalence
towardmagic.Yes,it’spowerfulbutisit“good”intheethical
sense? From this perspective, exus are frequently associated
withSatan,theChristianconceptionofthedevil.Thequalities
that most correspond to this concept are emphasized in the
Brazilian concept of the exu: lurking at the crossroads, the
smell of brimstone, and assistance that brings ultimate doom.
ThePombaGirasingeneralareperceivedasdangerous,
disreputable spirits. Their favorite haunt is a T-crossroad.
Theypreferworkingwithwomenbutwillworkwithmen,if
requested.Thosewhofearthemsuggestthatlong-termcon-
tactwillinspiretransvestitisminmenandprostitutionamong
both men and women.
The traditional offering for exus are plates of yellow
maniocflourcookedinoilordrizzledwithoil.PombaGiras
prefer flowers to food. Exus drink wine, rum, and cachaca
while Pomba Giras prefer anisette or champagne.128/901
Saints
Whetherfairiesarespiritsorhumansmaybesubjectforde-
bate. Many spirits, from orishas, to those of ancient Greece
andancientHawaii,mayormaynotbedeifiedhumans.The
important orisha Chango, for instance, was once a king in
Yorubaland. After death, he was deified and took his place
amongtheorisha.That’soneversionofhissacredstory,any-
way. The ancient Greeks demonstrated this process when
HeraclesandPsyche,bothoriginallymortals,werepermitted
to shed their human energy and enter the Realm of the
Divine.
Saints, however, are resolutely human—or at least they
werewhentheywerealive.Becausetheword“saint”hasbe-
comesostronglyassociatedwithRomanCatholicism,itoften
comesasasurprisetorealizethataconceptofsainthood,al-
beit not an identical concept, exists among many other cul-
tures,includingtheAfricanDiaspora,Buddhist,Jewish,and
Muslim traditions.
Roman Catholic saints are required to fulfill certain ex-
pectationsbeforesainthoodisofficiallyconferred,anditcan
bealengthy, bureaucratic process toprove theirmiraculous
deeds. Other traditions use different criteria: sometimes the
magicpower(heka,baraka)containedbyapersonissopo-
tentthatitdefiesdeath,allowingotherstocontinuetoaccess
it, for purposes of healing and magic. For many traditions,
powerofthismagnitudeiswhatconferssainthood.Itisusu-
ally an informal process. There’s no official beatification or
canonization: word of miracles simply gets around. Shrines
spring up and crowds gather.
The behavior of these saints may or may not be exem-
plary. Many are described as devout, charitable, generous129/901
people, although others demonstrate what might be charac-
terized as profligate tendencies. Regardless, a saint’s great
power,baraka,is accessible to those in need.
MarieLaveau,theself-proclaimedPopeofVoodooborn
in1792,hasascendedtothisconceptofsainthood.Thousands
venturetohergraveinNewOrleansannuallytobeseechher
forfavors.Inparticular,Laveauhasearnedanexcellentrepu-
tation for remedying legal issues, as she did during her life.
Attemptstocontactheraremadebyknockingthreetimeson
thefrontofhertomborbydrawingthreex’sinredbrickdust
orchalkonthestone.Offeringsandpaymentsareleft,most
customarily salt water or seven dimes.
What is euphemistically called “folk Catholicism” has
been the bane of the Roman Catholic Church for centuries.
Thedesiretoworkwithasaint,aswithaspirit,orperhapsthe
desire of the saint or spirit to work with the person, is too
strong to resist: magical practices creep in. Certain official
Vatican-approvedsaintsarealsofrequentparticipantsinma-
gic spells, particularly Saint Anthony, San Cipriano, Saint
MarthatheDominator,SaintGeorge,andJohntheBaptist.A
saint’s magic powersmayhavelittletodowiththeirofficial
hagiography: Saint Anthony, for instance, is invoked in al-
mostasmanylovespellsasAphrodite.SanCiprianomayor
maynothavebeenareformedwizardinreallife,butasfaras
magicspellsareconcerned,he’sreturnedtohisoldprofession
withgusto.Whentheyareinvokedformagic,thesesaintsare
treatedlikeanyotherspirit:offeringsandpaymentaremade
for miracles begged and received. Saints, like spirits, have
favored numbers, colors, fragrances, and gifts.130/901
Unofficial Saints
Theimpulsetoworkwithsaintscanbetoopowerfultowait
for permission—or sometimes even to ask for permission.
Thisisn’taproblemwithtraditionswithno“official”concept
of sainthood. In a sense, all Jewish saints, for example, are
“unofficial.”There’snoauthorityorcriteriatomakethemof-
ficial, although popularity conveys its own kind of official
status. It’s between saint and person. What happens,
however,withinasystemwherethesecriteriadoexist?What
happens when, during what usually starts as a local phe-
nomenon,peoplebegintorecognizeasaint’scapacityformir-
acles,withoutofficialrecognition?Willpeoplebepatientand
wait for the official verdict or will they create their own
rituals? For those who are inclined to magic, the choice is
obvious.
So-called“unofficialsaints”areinvariablytiedtotheRo-
manCatholictradition,becauseitistheonlytraditionthatin-
sistsonalengthyorganizedbureaucraticprocedureofconfer-
ringsainthood.Thereisavastrangeofunofficialsaints.What
theyhaveincommonareconsistentmiraclesperformedfol-
lowingdeath.Theymaybeaccessedinmagicspellsinsimilar
fashion to any other spirit.
Identification/Syncretism
Syncretismisthesystembywhichonespiritisidentified or
fusedtovaryingdegreeswithanother.Althoughtheprocessis
most commonly and consciously associated with modern
African-Diaspora faiths, the tradition goes back millennia.131/901
When the ancient Greeks began to travel their world,
theyencounteredotherpeople(Egyptians,Persians)withoth-
erpantheons.Thisfrustratedthem.Althoughtheydidn’tin-
sistononegod,theydidinsistontheirowngods.Whowere
these other spirits? In some cases, spirits from abroad
(Dionysus,Hecate)weremergedintotheirownpantheon.In
other cases, the Greeks decided, other cultures simply used
othernamesandtoldotherstoriesaboutspiritswhowerethe
sameastheGreekgods.Thustheycreatedasystemofidenti-
fication:Hathorwasabeautifulspiritoflove,wholikedper-
fumeandmusic.ShemustbeAphrodite,alsoabeautifulspir-
itoflove,wholikedperfumeandmusic.Althoughsometimes
neat, obvious identifications can be made, sometimes this
leadstoconfusion.ThePersianspirit,Anahita,wasabeauti-
fuldeityinterestedinhumanromanticandreproductivemat-
ters.ObviouslyshewasidentifiedasAphrodite(identification
meansshewasAphrodite),butAnahitaalsohadamartialas-
pect, driving a chariot, leading men to war. Therefore she
must be Athena, too.
Identification therefore attempts to identify one spirit
withinanother.Syncretismtakesthisastepfurther.Onespir-
it wears the mask of another. When one pantheon is out-
lawed,theonlywaytocontinuedevotiontonow-bannedspir-
itsistopretendthatyou’reworshipping others.Thisispre-
cisely what happened to enslaved Africans in the Western
hemisphere. Forbidden to practice their own faith, they ac-
commodated it to another. Syncretism permits forbidden
spiritstowearacceptablemasks.Syncretismalsomeansthat
acceptable saints are incorporated into magic spells in sur-
prising ways because, in essence, they are fronting for that
forbiddensomeoneelse.Howelsecanonereconcilethecon-
ventionalanddevout“official”SaintAnthonyofPaduawith132/901
thewitch-doctorpersonahedisplayssopowerfullyandbene-
volently in a multitude of magic spells?
Spirits,likemagicingeneral,arefluidinnature.Shape-
shiftingisn’thardforthem,evenwithoutconscioussyncret-
ism.HenceIndia’sDurgaisanaspectofParvati.Inamoment
of terrible stress, Durga unleashed her alter ego, Kali. All
threeareaspectsofone,butallthreearedistinctbeings,too.
Confused? Well, you should be, itisconfusing.
Therealmofthespiritsislikeajourneythroughadream
landscape. Syncretism only increases the confusion.
BecausethesyncretismoftheAfricanslaveswasbornof
desperation, quick, frequently visual identifications were
made. Slaves were forbidden to practice their own religions
but were permitted Roman Catholic chromolithographs of
saints.Theyscouredthem,lookingforcodedreferencestothe
orisha and lwa. Sometimes these identifications really work:
Ogun, spirit of iron, was syncretized with the archangel Mi-
chael because in his most famous image Michael wields a
sword. Yet they genuinely have much in common: both are
tirelessworkersandwarriorsonbehalfofhumansafety.Mi-
chael even has his own associations with iron. Sometimes
syncretism is surreal: Chango, that most virile spirit of fire
and lightning, is syncretized to the virgin martyr Saint Bar-
bara, because her chromolithograph depicts a lightning bolt.
The first generation to engage in syncretization is con-
scious of what they’re doing. After that, though, all bets are
off.Atwhatpoint,ifany,dothesespiritsgenuinelyfuse?Per-
hapsSaintPeter,syncretized toroad-openerElegbabecause
ofhiskeys,reallyisElegbaorvice-versa.Andifyou’reinvok-
ing Saint Peter in a magic spell, are you really invoking the
saintorElegba,hidingwithin,evenif,afterthreegenerations,
the orisha is no longer remembered?133/901
Santeriaearneditsname,“religionofthesaints,”because
of syncretism. Those who emphasize Roman Catholic ties
prefer to emphasize the saints or perhaps a combination.
Those who emphasize African roots prefer to emphasize the
orishaorperhapsacombination.Otherscannolongersepar-
ate saint from orisha; true fusion has occurred for them. In
Brazil, there have been calls to end syncretism as it is no
longer necessary.
Wereauthoritiestrulyunawareoftheslaves’subterfuge?
It’s hard to say. This system of identifying and syncretizing
spirits is present whenever one faith demands that another
abandonanddenyitsspirits.Sometimesreligiousauthorities
presented syncretism to a population to make the new reli-
gionpalatable.Hence,GoddessAinebecomesaFairyQueen.
Sheremains accessibletoolddevoteesinthatrole,ifnotin
heroldone,whichwasperceivedasdangeroustothenewre-
ligiousauthority.CelticspiritBrigid,theDruid’sdaughter,be-
comes identified with Saint Brigid. They merge; where one
stops and the other starts becomes very difficult to determine.
Sometimes, however, this process backfires. In the case
ofMaximon,alsoknownasBrotherSimon,missionaries’at-
temptstoassimilatetheGuatemalanspiritMaamwithSaint
Simonbackfired.Maximon,spiritofmaleprimalenergy,de-
fiedboundariesandtookonalifeofhisown.TheChurchthen
attemptedtosyncretizehimwithJudasIscariotorevenwith
thedevil.ThisonlyenhancedMaximon’soutlawimage,mak-
ing his devotees love him even more. Although intended to
merge, to syncretize, with an “official ” saint, Maximon in-
stead has emerged as a powerful “unofficial” saint.
Sometimessyncretismoccurredsolongagothattheori-
ginal spirit hiding underneath is completely forgotten. The
only way to recognize that syncretism may have occurred is
theobservationthatthesaintbehavesinastrangelyun-saint-134/901
likemanner.ThisappliesparticularlytotheBigThreeofma-
gicalCatholicsaints,SaintAnthony,SaintGeorge,andJohn
the Baptist. Although perhaps completely forgotten spirits
lurk within, many believe that under their respective masks
lie Hermes, Baal, and Adonis.
Spell-casting with
Words
Workingmagicalpractitionerstendtohavealoosedefinition
ofwhatconstitutesamagicspell.Onceonebecomestrulyin-
volved with magic and spell-casting, every action of the day
canbecometransformedintoamagicspell.Scholarsofmagic,
particularlythosewhostudyatopicthatfascinatesthembut
in which they don’t actually believe, may have more rigid
definitions.Formany,verbalspellsarethestrictestdefinition
of what constitutes a spell.
Technically, the use of the word “charm” to indicate a
“lucky charm” is a misnomer. Lucky charms are talismans,
amuletsormagicallyempowereditems.“Charm”derivesfrom
the same source as “Carmen” or “carol,” as in a Christmas
song,andindeedcharmatitsmostarchaicmeansasong.To
been-chantedliterallymeanstobeunderthemagicalinflu-
enceofachant.Bythestrictest,mostscholarlydefinitionofa
magic spell, every spell should have a verbal component,
preferably sung,andperhaps onlyaverbal component. Cer-
tainmagicaltraditionsdoemphasizethisverbalcomponent,
particularlytraditionalRussianmagicandmodernPow-Wow.
However,thisstrictdefinitioncanonlybeusedinanabstract,135/901
theoretical scholarly setting; it doesn’t take into account
either the realities of magic or the needs of many spell-
casters.
Great,renownedsystemsofmagic,suchasthosebelong-
ing totheFinn and Saami traditions, are under-represented
in this book. Their magical systems were traditionally based
on each individual practitioner’s unique repertoire of songs
andthuscannotbereproducedinbookform.Legendaryprac-
titionerswereabletosingmagicintofruition;anypractition-
er worth his or her salt, for instance, allegedly possessed a
song that could stop a wound from bleeding.
This desire to insist upon a verbal component to every
spellisveryEurocentric.Thisemphasisonthemagicpower
ofwordsdoesn’tnecessarilyexist,oratleastnottothesame
extent, in traditions from Asia and Africa. That said, the
power of words in magic spells is profound. Words convey
power and intent, and can be used to create realities where
noneexistedpreviously,whichis,afterall,thegoalofmany
magicspells.Words,sounds,andsyllablesmaypossesstheir
own inherent power in the same fashion that minerals and
botanicals do. Zora Neale Hurston, the author and scholar/
practitionerofmagic,onconsideringtheoriginsofmagicand
magic spells, suggested that God was the original Hoodoo
Doctor, having spoken the world into creation with magic
words.
Verbalcomponents,likespiritualpetition,maybeincor-
poratedintoanyspell.However,wordsaretrickyandsubject
toindividualtaste.Theclassicisabracadabra:someperceive
itasawordofpower,othersasanoldjoke.Theverbalcom-
ponentofthespellhastosuitthespell-caster’staste,other-
wise it can derail the whole spell.
Some tips on spell-casting language:136/901
• Repeatingthewordsofamagicspellshouldnev-
ermakeyoufeelfoolish,stupid,self-conscious,or
uncomfortable. Change the words to suit your
taste and temperament. It will undoubtedly not
be the first or last time they are changed
• Themajorityofthespellsinthisbookaretradi-
tional. Not every traditional spell has a verbal
component, however where traditional verbal
components of spells exist they have been re-
tained. Many spells feature archaic lan-
guage—language as it’s no longer spoken and
perhaps never was. An attempt to enhance ma-
gicalambienceoftenmeansresortingtopseudo-
archaic language. Some enjoy throwing “thees,”
“thous,” and “forsooths” into spells. This author
isn’t among them. In general, except where ar-
chaiclanguagewassomehowintrinsictothespell
or to conveying its specific character, I’ve used
modernlanguage,updatingandadjustingwhere
necessary, because magic spells, no matter how
ancient their roots, are a modern art, not releg-
ated to the dusty past. However if you like all
those “thees” and “thous,” if you enjoy archaic
language, if it enhances your sense of magical
ambience,adjustthespellstosuityourtasteand
put them back
• Many associate the verbal component of spells
with rhymes. If you enjoy rhymes, that’s fine,
howeverrhymesarenotrequired.Theadvantage
of rhymes is that they’re easily remembered,
which can be crucial if it’s a spell that requires
you to exactly repeat incantations at intervals,
however what is being said is almost invariably137/901
moreimportantthantheliterarydevicesusedto
say it
• Itiscrucialthattheverbalcomponentofaspell
express your goals and desires accurately, con-
cisely,andwithoutambiguity,becauselivingma-
gical forces sometimes enjoy playing tricks.
Changeandadaptasneeded.Makeupyourown
words, keeping them simple and to the point, or
use words composed by others that best express
yourdesires.Psalmsaretraditionallyusedinthis
way; poems or the lyrics of your favorite songs
maybeabletoarticulateyourdesiresandgoals
more accurately than any ancient charm
Speaking the Spell
Verbal components of spells are usually spoken aloud,
howevernotallspellsarespokenthesameway.Therearedif-
ferenttechniquesofspeakingandenunciatingusedinspell-
casting.Directionsareincorporatedintothetextofthespells
but you must understand these directions in order to put
them to best effect.
Murmuring and Muttering
Inmanycases,theverbalcomponentofthespellisnotmeant
to be easily understood by others. This is not necessarily or
onlybecauseofsecrecy.Inthesespells,youareactuallyinter-
jectingthepowerofyourwordsintosomething,evenifonly
theatmosphere,butmorefrequentlyintoanobject.Aclassic138/901
and simple spell is to murmur words over a glass of water,
transformingitintoapotion.Bythengivingittoanotherto
drink, you are magically transferring and transmitting your
magical message and directions.
Announcing and Chanting
Sometimes, however, words are used to express and an-
nounceone’sintentionsanddesirestotheuniverseortoward
aspecificmagicpower.Inthatcase,wordsneedtobeclearly
understood. Articulate distinctly, expressively, and at a
volume that you deem appropriate.Key Concepts for
Casting Magic Spells
Althoughonecanjuststartcastingspells,learningbytri-
al and error, understanding certain key concepts boosts the
chances of a spell-caster’s success.
Thresholds
Magicenergyradiatesfromeverythingandeveryonethatoc-
cursnaturallyonEarthtovaryingdegrees,orisderivedfrom
naturallyoccurringparts.Someobjectsaresourcesofgreater
powerthanothers.Frankincense,roses,andwildSyrianrue,
forinstance,permitgreateraccesstomagicpowerthanmany
other botanicals. Certain areas are also sources of greater
powerthanothers,with“area”meantbothinaliteralanda
metaphoric way.
Thresholds are border areas where one force, power, or
elementencountersanother.Thesemeetingareasarepoten-
tiallythemosthighlymagicallychargedofall.Thresholdsex-
ist everywhere: the seashore, that transitional area where
oceanmeetsland;thefootofmountains,wherelandbeginsto
rise;andcaves,thesubterraneanthresholdsbetweenEarth’s
outer and inner powers.
There are architectural thresholds: doors and windows.
Therearethresholdsintime:twilightanddawn,whereanin-
coming power approaches before the out-going power has140/901
completelydispersed.Lifecyclesarethresholds:thebirthofa
new baby, particularly a first child whose birth transforms
someoneintoaparent.Deathisathresholdbetweenoneex-
istenceandthenext.Someonewholingersinahalflifeisde-
scribed as having a foot in both worlds, straddling the
threshold.Anytransformativeritualisdefinedasathreshold,
by virtue of its very capacity to transform. There are
thresholds onthebody:themouthisthethreshold between
thought and speech.
Thresholdsaresimultaneouslytheareasofgreatestma-
gical potential and also ofextreme vulnerability. Avast per-
centageofprotectiveamulets,rituals,andspellsaredesigned
to guard thresholds and the transformative process. In fact,
every magic spell can be perceived as a transformative
threshold, from a past that has left something to be desired
toward the future that the spell hopefully produces.
Mostthresholds consist ofasimple boundary: with one
footyoustandinsidethehouse,withanotheryoustandout-
side.Ifyourfeetaresmallenoughandyourbalanceisgood,
you can stand poised, neither inside, nor outside.
With one foot you stand in the river or ocean, with the
other, you stand on the land. The ancient Egyptians called
their country “the land of the red and the black,” because
there was a distinct division, a visible dividing line between
theblackfertilelandofNilesiltandthestarkredlandofthe
desert.Youcouldliterally standwithonefootineachcolor.
Eachcoloralsotypifiedadifferentkindofmagicandadiffer-
entspiritualruler.TheblackbelongedtoOsiris,withhisarts
of orderly civilization; red belonged to his brother Seth, an-
archic, chaotic Lord of Magic.
These are simple boundaries: you can hop from one to
theother.Therearealsoexpanded,exponentiallysuper-ma-
gically charged thresholds.141/901
The Crossroads
The crossroads are literally where different roads meet and
where they separate, where opportunity emerges to change
directions.Theyareunpredictable;youcouldtakeanyoneof
a variety of choices. Magically speaking a crossroads is the
place where multiple forces converge, where anything can
happen, where transformations may occur. Energy is liber-
atedandexpandedatthecrossroads.Insteadofhoppingover
boundaries,youcanstandinthecenterandbeinundatedby
power, potential, and choices.
There are four-way crossroads and three-way cross-
roads—theproverbialforkintheroad.Aclassicmoviescene,
albeitonethatoccursinreal-lifeifyou’veeverbeenlostinthe
country,showssomeonearrivingataforkintheroad.With
noidentifyingroad-signinsight,ourheroorheroineisforced
tochoosearoad.Chooseeitheroneandyourdestinymaybe
altered forever. Crossroads offer the opportunity for trans-
formation, for a change of direction, a change in destiny.
Crossroadsareubiquitousinmagic.Manyspellsdemand
tobecastatthecrossroads;othersrequirethattheremnants
ofspells—left-overcandlestubs,ashes,andthesuch—bebur-
ied at the crossroads, where their energy can safely disperse.
Specifictypesofspiritualentities,knownas“road-open-
ers”andinevitablybeingsofgreatpower,presideovercross-
roads.Thesebeingscanbepetitionedforknowledge,inform-
ation, and for a change in destiny. They control thresholds
androads,anddeterminewhohasfreeaccessandwhofinds
roadsbarred,whowillchoosetherightforkintheroadand
who will wander hopelessly lost forever.
In ancient Greece, Hermes ruled the four-way cross-
roads,whileHecatepresided overthree-way crossroads,her142/901
epithet Hecate Trivia emphasizing this aspect. Trivia, from
which the Englishtrivialderives, literally meansthree roads.
In West Africa, Eshu-Elegbara rules the crossroads, as
does his Western hemisphere incarnations Elegba, Papa
Legba, and Exu. In Brazil, Exu’s female counterpart, Pomba
Gira, presides over T-shaped crossroads.
Once upon a time, crossroads were where people met,
wherenomadsrendezvoused,wheregallowsstood,wherethe
deathpenaltywasenactedandcorpseslefttohang,wheresui-
cideswereburied.Ifmagicspellswerecastaccordingtodirec-
tion, then midnight at the crossroads must have frequently
been a crowded, busy place, especially on a night like Hal-
loween when the veil that divides the realms of living and
deadisatitsmostpermeable,leavinganopenroadforinter-
realm communication.
Christianauthoritiesfrequentlyurgedpeopletoavoidthe
crossroads,particularlyatnight,asitwasthedevil’sstomping
grounds.Ifyouwerelooking tomeetSatan, however,ifyou
had a proposition or a request for him, the crossroads was
where you were most likely to find him. When legendary
bluesmen Tommy and Robert Johnson journeyed to the
crossroads totrade their soulsformusical ability, were they
lookingforthisdevilorforthesometimeslame,PapaLegba,
orcouldanyoneeventellthedifferenceanymore?(SeeIdenti-
fication/Syncretism.)
Unfortunately, the most accessible modern crossroads
aretrafficintersections.Themagicenergyremains,however.
Thinkaboutabusyintersection:onagooddayyouflystraight
through,makingajourneyfasterandeasier.Atraffictie-up,
however,isanenergybuild-upwithaddedpotentialforacci-
dents and road rage.
Faithfully attempting to follow a spell’s directions may
leaveyouplayinginthemiddleoftraffic.InRiodeJaneiro,143/901
PombaGira’sdevoteestakethisintoaccount:offeringsaren’t
leftwhereyoumightexpect,atthecenterofthecrossroads,
but by the side of the road. No matter how powerful your
spell,itwillhavenoopportunitytoworkifyougethitbyacar
duringthecasting.Findanappropriateold-fashionedcross-
roads,asafeareaofamoderncrossroads,orreadbetweenthe
lines—figure out what the spell really requires (why you’re
beingsenttothecrossroads,forwhatpurpose)andadaptand
substitute as needed.
Notallcrossroadsareliteralintersectionsofroads.Magic
spells also emphasize other, very specific crossroads.
The Cemetery
Thecemeteryisthethresholdbetweentherealmsoftheliving
andthedead.Ittooisaplaceoftransformation.Manyspells
demand that a spell either be cast in the graveyard or that
spell remnants be buried there, as if one were conducting a
funeral. These include protection, banishing and love spells,
as well as hexes. Significantly, many necromantic spells,
spells,forcommunicatingwiththosewhohavepassedonto
the next life, donotrequire a trip to the cemetery.
The cemetery, like the more general crossroads, swirls
withenergy,albeitofamorespecifickind:ghosts,soulsofthe
departed,abstractlifeanddeathforces,spiritualentities,pro-
tective guardians, and those malevolent beings who are at-
tracted to grief or decay all make their home in the cemetery.
Whether the cemetery is a benevolent or a threatening
placedependslargelyonculturalperceptionsofwhathappens
tothesoulafterdeath.Culturesthatdependonprotectivean-
cestral spirits rarely fear the cemetery; cultures that believe144/901
thathumanmemoryandemotiontrulydies,leavingnothing
but a hungry, destructive ghost will avoid the graveyard ex-
cept for purposes of malevolent magic.
The Pros and Cons of the
Graveyard
Thecemeteryistheplacewheredangerousentitieslurk,dan-
gerouspeople,too!AlthoughaGreekword,theterm“necro-
polis,”cityofthedead,stemsfromancientEgypt.Onceupon
a time, the devastatingly poor made their home among the
graves.Thissituationstillexistsinmanyplaces,togreateror
lesser extent. On the other hand, cemeteries are places of
great neutral power (think of all that swirling radiant en-
ergy!),whichisabletobeharnessedforgoodorevil,asthe
practitioner intends or desires.
Even in the cemetery, bypassing actual grave-sites, cer-
tain areas are more packed with power than others. The
threshold of the threshold, so to speak, is at the cemetery
gates. Older cemeteries traditionally feature iron gates to
providethisboundary.Iron,withtheexceptionofmenstrual
blood,is the single most protective substance onEarth, and
will repel and contain malevolent spirits and ghosts. Many
spellsrequestthatitemsbeleftatthecemeterygates:thisis
not because people were afraid to enter the graveyard itself,
but because that threshold is so much more powerful.
Many powerful spirits, such as India’s Kali and Shiva,
Matron and Patron of Tantra, reside in the cemetery, as do
ancient Egypt’s road-openers, Anubis, the jackal-headed in-
ventor of embalming, and Wepwawet, a wolf deity. (Say the
name fast and hear that wolf cry.)145/901
Accessingthepowerofcrossroadsandcemeteriesiscom-
mon to most magical traditions, to varying extents. Specific
other traditions recognize and incorporate still other
crossroads.
The Bathhouse
Prior to the advent of private, indoor plumbing, the public
bathhouse was a place of great social importance, a cross-
roadstowhicheveryoneeventuallycame.Itspurposewasnot
only hygienic and social, but spiritual and magical, too.
In the days before privacy, public bathhouses were re-
quiredforspiritualcleansingritualsaswellasphysicalones.
Thebathhouseattendant,nowmostfrequentlyalowlyjanit-
orial occupation, was once a respected, and perhaps feared,
ritual leader who wielded great power. In many cases they
might be the only ones privy to occult secrets.
Manytraditionsstillretaintheequivalentofabathhouse:
the Jewish mikveh, the Native American sweat lodge, the
Aztectemescal.Notallbathhousesfeaturewater,asthesweat
lodgedemonstrates.FinnishsaunasandTurkishsteambaths
accessothermethods.Inthesameway,cleansingspellsareas
likely to use smoke, sound, or other methods as water. The
bathhouse, whether wet or dry, was frequently the scene of
many threshold experiences:
• Babies were born in bathhouses
• Preparationforbridesandsometimesgroomsoc-
curs in the bathhouse
• Cultures that isolate menstruating women fre-
quentlyhaveritualsheldinthebathhousetosig-
nal her return to society at large146/901
• Bodies are prepared for funeral rites in the
bathhouse
The frequency of these experiences in the bathhouse would
exponentially increase the potential power contained within.
Thebathhouseisthedescendantofancientsprings,each
the home of resident magic spirits. Many bathhouses were
builtonthesiteofsprings,andthespiritstookupresidence
in the new bathhouse. Water spirits, like the nature of their
element,arefrequentlyvolatile,repletewithtreasure,butalso
withdangerouscurrents.Thesecanbetremendouslybenevol-
entspirits(waterspiritsrankamongthemostpowerfullove
spirits),butyouhavetoknowhowtohandlethem.Withthe
comingofChristianityandIslam,ritesofdevotionandpaci-
ficationwereforbiddenandabandoned.Manyspiritspacked
up and left; those remaining, starved of attention, are fre-
quentlygrouchy.Thusthebathhouseisbothaplaceofpower
anddanger.Enteralonetoaccessthespiritsoravoidentering
alone so that the spirits cannot access you!
Russianmagic,inparticular,manifeststhisambivalence
andwilldirectmanyspellstobeperformedinthebathhouse,
usually at midnight.
Ruins
Ruins ofbuildings and cities, particularly (but not necessar-
ily) those that met their ruin in violence, are perceived as
swirling with power. This is the stuff of fairy tale: the
Europeanwitchconvictedpurelybecauseshehasbeengath-
ering herbs amidst the ruins. It’s not like there’s any other
reasontobethere,thewitchhunterssay.Indeed,someofthe
mostpowerfulmagicalherbs,mugwortandSyrianrue,thrive147/901
best among ruins. Many practitioners believe that these
botanicals,alreadymorepowerfulthanmost,areattheheight
oftheirpowerwhenpickedthere,especiallyatmidnight,twi-
light or just before dawn.
Stone ruins are most powerful because stone, although
silent,isinmagicaltermshardlyinanimate.Stoneisbelieved
to retain memories of whatever occurs in its vicinity. Those
memories may be accessed by those who know how.
Souls of those who perished in the ruins may linger, as
may others drawn to the site. They may be accessed, if you
dare.Djinnnotfoundlurkinginthedesert,behinddoorways
or at natural springs will be found amidst ruins, the more
broken the better. If you want to access them, that’s where
you’llfindthem.Ifyou’reafraidthey’llaccessyou,hurrypast
without stopping.
Altars
Crossroads and cemeteries are places of power precisely be-
causetheyallowenergyextraspaceandopportunitytoradi-
ate.Sometimesyouwanttheoppositeeffect,aconcentration
ofenergy.Theneedistoconcentratepowerandenergyinone
spot,afocalspot,theverycenterofthecrossroads,ifyouwill.
An altar allows you to do this.
Many spells direct that you build an altar.
Althoughthetermisusedbymanyreligionstoindicate
anareadedicatedtoadeity,thismayormaynotbethecase
magicallyspeaking.Analtarinitsmostbasicmagicaldefini-
tion is a tableau or arrangement of specific articles. Small
childrenareinveteratebuildersoftableaux,withnoconscious
conceptionofreligiousdevotion.Theysimplypickuppower148/901
objectsandarrangethem.Forpractice,pickanytheme,ma-
gical or not, and devote a shoebox diorama or a table top to it.
The simplest ancestral altar consists of a white candle
andaglassofwater.ThemostcomplexVodounaltarisanen-
tireroom,witheachobjectcarefullychosenandarrangedme-
ticulously. Nothing on an altar, whether simple or lavish, is
random or arbitrary. If it’s there, it’s there for a reason.
Altarsaregenerallyerectedforoneorbothofthefollow-
ing reasons:
Asacommunicationdevicetosummonaspirit.Byad-
justingobjects,colors,andfragrances,yousendoutaspecific
signalrequestingattention.ThustheYorubadeityororisha,
Oshun,recognizesherselfinthespectrumofcolorsfromyel-
lowtoorange,incertaintypesofflowers,inhoneyandcinna-
mon.Herobjectsincludepeacockfeathersandmirrors.Her
number is five. The concentration of special themed objects
catches her attention and invites her presence. Ideally she’ll
dropbytoseewhat’sgoingon.Becausecertainobjectsmay
be shared between deities (Aphrodite, Juno, Kybele, and
Maria Padilha all love roses, although not necessarily the
same color or number, and Maria Padilha prefers hers with
longstemsbutnothorns),themorespecificanddetailedthe
tableau, the more likely you are to summon the right spirit.
Altarsmaybeerectedintribute,asanofferingofthanks
for previous favors, or as part of a petition process.
Asameansofconcentratingenergy.Analtarcanbede-
votedtoaspell,notnecessarilytoanykindofspiritualentity.
Spellsthatareconductedoveranextendedperiodoftime,for
instance nine-day spells, may benefit from a concentrated
area:thespelldoesn’tblendintothebackgroundbutremains
distinct,itsboundariesandthresholdsclear.Thusallobjects
involved in the spell (and some spells may involve several149/901
candlesplusassorteddishesandobjects)arearrangedtogeth-
er in formation.
Altarsaremostfrequentlyplacedatopflatfurnituresur-
faces—dressers,bookshelves,andcoffeetables.Old-fashioned
televisionsbuiltintowoodencabinetswereoncepopularaltar
areas.
There is a wide variety of altars beyond the tabletop
tableau. Candle spells require that an altar be kept in plain
sight,andmanypreferthismethodbecausetheconstantvisu-
alpresenceofthealtarempowersmanyspells.However,itis
not necessary. An altar may also be maintained discreetly,
withinacabinetorclosedbox:ashadowboxaltar.Miniature
altarscanbecreatedwithinold-fashionedcigar-andmatch-
boxes.
Altars may also be created outside. A garden, window
box, or flowerpot can contain a living altar, an Earth altar.
The possibilities are endless.
Altars may be intensely private or public: visualize the
roadside shrines frequently erected at the site of fatal acci-
dents.FrenchCaribbeanaltarsarecreatedinshelteredplaces
within tree trunks. If a statue is placed within the tree,
passers-by can come with offerings of flowers and candles.
Spells of petition dedicated to the Brazilian spirit Maria
Padilhainvariablybeginwithdirectionstolayblackandred
clothsontheground:youaredemarcating thespell’sspace,
effectivelysettingupanaltar.Spellsdedicatedtodeitiesofthe
seaofteninstructyoutodigashallowpitinthesand,within
which to burn candles. That hole in the sand becomes the
altar.
Altars can be created from anything and erected any-
where.Waterspirits,forinstance,frequentlypreferthebath-
roomtootherroomsofthehouse,asthemostwateryplace.A
shrine(essentiallyamorelavishaltar)dedicatedtomermaids150/901
belongs in the bathroom rather than in another room that
might be considered more “spiritually appropriate.” Spirits
dedicatedtolovepreferaltarsinthebedroomwheretheycan
supervise andstimulate activity. Intellectual spirits likeYor-
uba’sOyaorIndia’sSarasvatiprefertheiraltarstobeplaced
nearbooks.Accessthechildlike,creative,playfulpartofyour-
self and it’s not difficult to build an altar.
Objects may decorate an altar or serve as the altar.
WatermelonsaresacredtotheYorubaspirit,Yemaya.Placea
sliceonheraltartocallher.Hollowoutawatermelon,insert
somecandlesandthewatermelonhasbecomethealtar.Wood
maybeusedasaltardecorationbutalsoasthealtar.Thisis
particularlytrueofspecialsacredwoods,suchassandalwood
or aloes wood. Sometimes the deity is the wood. Hera was
representedbytheoakinGreece,whileDianawasrepresen-
tedbythatwoodthroughoutEurope.Alogsegmentisgiven
center-stage, dressed with oil and adorned with ornaments,
small candles or charms.
Unsurprisingly,thebedservesasthealtarformanylove
spells: sheets are sprinkled with powder; power objects are
tuckedbeneaththemattressandthepillows.Botanicalsmay
hang over the bed or candles burn alongside it.
The body serves as an altar in many spells, particularly
thoseforhealing,love,andprotection.Oilandpowdermaybe
appliedtothebodyinthesamemannerastoacandle.Henna
andotherbodydecorationtransformsthebodyintoaliving
altar.Nexttimeyougetdressed,asyouapplycosmetics,jew-
elry, and other ornaments, consider that you are dressing
youraltar—analtarthatservestocommunicatewithotherbe-
ings and concentrates your power and energy.
Noteverycrossroadsisalocation:aformalmagicspellis
acrossroadswheretheinherentmagicenergiesofthespell’s151/901
componentsconverge.Theresultofthespellisthesymbiotic
reaction to that convergence.
• One might also consider an altar a
method of demarcating sacred space
• A spell may be cast by creating an al-
tar; similar to feng shui, articles and
objectsarearrangedtocreateadesired
energy transformation
• Although some spells specify creating
one, even when it isn’t suggested, an
altar may always be incorporated
• Likewise, if you are seriously challenged
for space, remember, magic is always
about improving your life. The goal of
magic is to eliminate difficulties and
stress, not produce new ones. If you
have no room for a formal altar, delin-
eate space as possible. Plenty of people
burn candles in the bathtub; you won’t
be the first
Balance
Consider the herbalist’s scales: things are carefully weighed
out to achieve a desired balance. Magic plays with balance,
too. Sometimes the desire is for all forces to be equal and152/901
harmonious.Atothertimesgoalsareaccomplishedbydelib-
erately,consciouslytippingthescalestoprovidetherequired
effect.
Left and Right
Onceuponatime,nottoolongago,theconceptofDualism
associated the direction right with God, high, male, and all
thosegoodthings.Thuschildrenwereforcedtousetheirright
hands,thedexterous hand,whetherthatwastheirnaturally
dominant hand or not. Children who were naturally left-
handed(thesinisterhand)literallyhaditbeatenoutofthem
until they were dexterous too. Consider various phrases: in
the right, Mr. Right, the left-hand path, a left-handed
compliment.
Connections between genders and these directions,
however, predate Dualism and Christianity. They exist in
completelyunrelatedcultures,includingsomethatwereisol-
atedforaverylongtime.Hawaiianmagic,forinstance,asso-
ciates left with female, right with male as surely as the
Chinese and many Asian, African, and European traditions.
Frequentlyofferingstofemaledeitiesaremadewiththeleft
hand(bybothmenandwomen)whileofferingstomalesare
made with the right (by both men and women). Feng shui
suggeststhatit’sbeneficialforwomentosleepontheleftside
ofacommonbed,whileamanshouldsleepontheright.(Al-
thoughspellsintendedtoreversethepowerdynamicwithina
relationship may suggest those sides be switched.)153/901
Sometimesspellsdirectthatanactionbeperformedwith
eitheryourleftorrighthand.Eitheroneoftwothingsisbeing
requested.
• Becauseleftisyinandyangisright,theleftside
ofeveryone’sbodyisyinoraffiliatedwith“female
forces”whiletherightsideisyangandaffiliated
with“maleforces.”Mostfrequentlyaspell’ssuc-
cess depends upon accessing one force or em-
phasizing one quality over the other
• Sometimes the spell’s success depends upon not
usingyourdominanthand.Becauseuntilrecently
everyone was forced to be right-handed, many
olderspellbookswillspecifycastingaspellwith
yourlefthand,becauseit’sassumedthateveryone
isright-handed.Thisis,obviously,nolongerthe
case
Wheretheimportanceliesinnotusingyourdominanthand,
thisisspecifiedinspell-directions.Left-handedpeoplewillbe
directedtousetheirrighthands.Wherenosuchdirectionis
given,iftheonlystipulationistouseyourlefthand,thenthis
applies to everyone across the board.
Materia Magica
Spellsutilizevariousitemsandmaterials.Manyitemsoccur
naturallyonEarth(rocks,metals,flowers);othersdonot,but
arecreationsofpeople,craftedfromoneormoreofthoseori-
ginal materials (magic wands, candles, magic mirrors, etc.).154/901
Thereisavastquantityofmaterialstochoosefrom.It’s
unlikelythatyouwillneedthemall.Somewillappealtoyou,
will resonate for you: those are your best tools. If you don’t
likethem,iftheyfailtoholdyourinterest,it’snotlikelythat
they’ll work for you, at least not consistently.
Once upon a time, all magic was made by hand from
scratch, from soup to nuts. If a spell required paper, you
wouldmakethatpaper,perhapsevengatheringthematerial.
You’dmaketheink,too.Old-fashioned,yousay?Yes,butthis
soup-to-nuts method has very important benefits, notably,
control over your materials and your spell. When you do it
yourself,youknowthatthingsweredonecorrectly,allpowers
wereproperlypropitiated,allingredientsgenuine.Thatsaid,
magicisintendedtomakeyourlifeeasier,notmoredifficult.
Ifyouarechallengedfortime,purchaseasmuchready-made
as possible. The botanicals you grow with love and care will
always have more power for you, but if you don’t have a
gardenorgreenfingers,buythemfromsomeonewhodoes.If
you’re not “crafty,” you can still cast spells. Plenty of other
people are and they’ll be happy to sell you their wares, oils,
candles,wands,andherbs.However,holdthesecraftspeople
tothesamehighstandardthatyou’dholdanyoneelse.Don’t
be afraid to ask questions and specify your needs.155/901
Preparing For
Spell-casting
Cleansing
Cleansing is not meant literally but refers to methods of re-
moving spiritual residues. Not everything requires cleansing
because not everything retains this residue. Botanicals and
candlesdonot,forinstance.Rocks,crystals,andmagicmir-
rorsmayrequirecleansing,particularlythefirsttimeyouuse
them, because they retain memory and impressions. You
don’t necessarily know
Remember: Magic spells take many forms, from
spoken word to candle burning, from mixing oils
to something as simple as posting a specific im-
age on the wall. Your energy, focus, and intent
are what transform simple actions, words, and
gestures into magic spells.
everythingthat’sretainedwithinamirror.(HarryPotterfans:
rememberTomRiddle’sdiary.Therewasalothiddenwithin
thoseseeminglyblankpages.)Cleansinggivesyoutheoppor-
tunity to wipe the slate clean and start afresh.
Mostmetalsfallinacategorybetweenrocksandbotanic-
als and so sometimes need cleansing, with the exception of156/901
silverandiron,whichareimpervioustospiritualtarnish.You
can still cleanse them, however, if you prefer.
Two areas are typically cleansed prior to initiating any
importantspell:theritualspaceandyou—yourbody.Cleans-
ingwillempoweryouandyourspell,removingimpediments
and obstacles to success.
(See also sections on cleansing, techniques, and spells
below.)
Charging the Materials
Magic is latent in everything containing life. How is it ac-
cessed?Howisitdirectedtowardyourpurpose?Bycharging
the materials.
Charging the materials is magical parlance for imbuing
the physical components of your spells, be they stones or
plants or fabric or anything else, with your personal energy
andthegoalofyourspell.Itisacrucialmagicalconcept,and
is akin to charging a battery—a transfusion of energy.
Exactlyhownecessaryitistochargeasubstancedepends
largelyuponspecifictraditions.Someplacegreateremphasis
onchargingthanothers,althoughnotraditionwouldtellyou
notto charge an item.
Although every spell does not direct you to charge your
materials,itisagiventhatdoingsowillincreaseyourchances
of success.
Chargingtechniquesarespells;theycanbeusedtoim-
bueanyobjectwithyourmagicalenergyandpower,whether
these objects will be used in a formal spell or otherwise.
This is the simplest charging technique of all:157/901
1. 1.Holdtheobjectwithtwohands,claspedtogeth-
er so that the object or a portion of it is sand-
wiched between them.
2. 2. Close your eyes and take a few slow, deep
breaths.
3. Clear your mind so that there are no conscious
thoughts. If thoughts arise spontaneously, con-
siderwhetherthisderivesfromcommunicationof
onesortoranotherwiththeobject.Makeanoteof
thethoughtssothatyoumayreturntothemlater,
and clear your mind once again.
4. Just hold the object, focusing on energy flowing
outofyourhandsandintotheobject.(Depending
uponthenatureoftheobject,thismaybeaone-
way or two-way energy flow.)
5. Whenyoufeelthattheobjecthasabsorbedsuffi-
cientenergyorisnowinharmonywithyourper-
sonal vibration, place it down and consciously
withdraw your attention from it.
If you would like to charge the object with the purpose of a
specificspell,followtheinstructionsuptoStep3.Insteadof
clearing your mind, visualize the achievement of the spell’s
desired goal. Hold this steady in your mind. When you feel
that the object is sufficiently charged, remove it from your
hands and consciously withdraw your attention.
Expanded Ritual Charging
1. Perform appropriate space and personal cleans-
ings, as needed.158/901
2. Prepare an altar dedicated to charging the
materials.
3. Holdawhitecandlebetweenyourpalmswhileyou
concentrateonwhatyouwishfromthearticleyou
are charging.
4. When you’re ready, place the candle on the altar
and light it.
5. Hold the article between your palms, charge it
withyourenergyorgoals,usingthetechniqueex-
plained above.
6. When you’re ready, place it down next to the
candle.
7. Allow the object to remain there until the candle
burns out completely.
Objects can be charged with specific forces, usually sunlight
ormoonlight,sothattheywillcontainsomeofthisessence.
Objects may also be charged with elemental forces.
Blessings of the Elements
Eachelementcanprovideritualblessingsforspelltoolsand
materials. Whatever is blessed is empowered and charged
withthatelement’sspecialenergy.Choosewhatisappropri-
ate or desirable, alone or in combination.
• Air: Pass the object through or hold within in-
cense smoke. Smudge with a smudge stick
• Earth: Sprinkle with dirt, particularly specially
chosen dirt (crossroads dirt, or dirt gathered
from a shrine or holy place)159/901
• Fire: Pass through a flame or hold within the
flame for a few moments (obviously this is for
materials that won’t burn or be damaged)
• Metal:Allowtheobjecttorestovernightatopthe
specific metal
• Water:Sprinklewithregularwaterormagically
charged formula water (see Formulary). Obvi-
ouslythisisformaterialsthatwon’tbedamaged
by this technique
IMPORTANT CONCEPT:
RECIPROCITY
Becausemagicisanexchangeofpowers,consist-
ently effective magic isn’t all about me, me, me!
The universe doesn’t exist solely to serve you;
there is always an exchange of energy, an ex-
change ofgifts.Magicisaboutmutually satisfying
relationships between forces and powers, includ-
ing but not limited to your own. Power and favors
must be balanced. You are as much a contributor
to the universe as a receiver of its bounties.
When you want something from a power, of-
fer something in return. When you receive a gift
or favor, give one in return. This maintains a bal-
ance of power in the universe. In some cases, it’s
necessary. Botanicals work more powerfully for
you if you reciprocate, offering libations, when160/901
harvesting. Many spirits will not work with you,
unless they essentially receive payment of some
sort, which may be as simple as devotion or as
complex as a specific ritual, depending upon the
power.Ritual Tools and
Techniques
Tools,likespells,arecreationsofpeople.Whatmaybein-
dispensable to you depends upon your personal traditions
andneeds.ForthepractitionerofWicca,anathameisneces-
sary;intheoldSaamitraditionitwasthedrum.Ifceremonial
“High” magic appeals to you, you may need a lot of “stuff.”
Forothers,what’snecessarymaybeaslittleaswhatfitsintoa
medicine bag—or even less.
Becausesomanypublishedworksfocusonthemorece-
remonial aspects of magic, there is often an emphasis on
tools. These may or may not be necessary to you: poor
people’s magic, the magic of slaves or nomads who travel
light,isnolesspowerfulbutmayrequirelessstuff—oratleast
different stuff.
There is a tremendous variety of magical tools, demon-
strating human ingenuity and creativity at its finest. Some
creationsservenootherpurposebutmagic,whileothersmas-
queradeascommonhouseholdtools.Gettoknowyourneeds,
yourtaste, and yourownpower, and then gravitate towards
tools that call to you, that resonate for you.
Amulets and Talismans
“Amulet”and“talisman”areusedsomewhatinterchangeably,
but basically talismans are the archetypal lucky charms,162/901
drawingsomespecificgoodfortunetowardsyou,whileamu-
letstendtohaveprotective,preventative,orcurativepowers.
ConfusionderivesfromthetendencyintheEnglishlanguage
toskateoverthesetopicsveryquickly.Otherlanguageshave
specific names for every specific type of talisman or amulet,
allveryprecise.Ourword“amulet”isbelievedtoderivefrom
theLatinamuletum,meaning“amethodofdefense”(remin-
iscent of ammunition).
There are typically two forms of talismans and amulets:
• Those that are written
• Independent objects
Magic spells are frequently required in order to create talis-
mans and amulets.
Bells
Bellsareamulti-purposemagicaltoolofancientprovenance
andinternationaluse.Theyareincorporatedintoavarietyof
spells:
• Fertility spells (a bell won’t “work” without the
clapper inside it)
• Spirit-summoning spells
• Protective spells
• Space-cleansing spells
• Healing spells
Church bells derive from magical use, not the other way
around.163/901
Bellsarecraftedfrommanymaterials:silverandironare
consideredmostauspicious,especiallyforprotection,fertility,
andhealing.Inaddition,bellsintendedtododouble-service
as amulets may be crafted for symbolic use: thus bells are
found in the shape of pinecones, cats, and frogs.
InsomeAsiantraditions,havingbeenwellused,bellsare
thenmelteddownandtheresultingmetalusedtocreateother
magic tools,suchasritual cupsand plates.Thegrease from
largebells,suchaschurchbells,mayalsobescrapedoutand
used as a component of banishing and hexing spells. It is a
frequent component ofGoofer Dust.
Books
Therewasadrasticincreaseinpersecutionandprosecutions
forwitchcraft,sorcery,andpaganisminlateantiquity.Among
thecharges,besidesastrology,divination,themakingoflove
potions, and the presentation of petitions at pagan shrines,
was possession of magic books.
Booksservemanypurposesinmagicbeyondservingasa
source for spells. The book may itself be a form of a spell,
serving as an amulet. Certain books don’t have to be read;
their very presence in the home provides protection from a
hostofills.BesidestheBibleandKoran,otherbooksofthis
ilkincludeTheBookofRaziel,BookofPow-Wows:TheLong
Lost Friendand the RussianDreams of a Virgin.
Books serve as magical tools. Specific books are often
used as sources of divination. These especially include the
Bible, the Koran, Homeric verses, and the works of Virgil.164/901
TheBookofPsalmspossessesanalteregoasamagical
book.Psalmsareusedtocastahostofspellsforavarietyof
reasons. Many assume that this originated with Hoodoo,
where recitation of psalms is a common practice, but this is
basedonthefalseassumptionthattheHoodoodoctorswere
uneducatedandthusmusthave“madestuffup.”Iffact,itis
quitethecontrary—incorporationofpsalmsintomagicstems
backcenturies.Thepracticewaspopularenoughtostimulate
publication of a medieval compilation of the uses to which
psalmsandtheirindividualversesmightbeput.TheMagical
UseofthePsalms,apopularworkofitstime,wasfrequently
reprinted in pocket-sized editions and was translated from
Latin into several European languages. It was eventually
placed on the Index Librorum Prohibitorum of the Roman
Catholic Church.
Similarly,spellsfromtheIslamicworldmayincorporate
recitation of appropriate verses from the Koran.
Sacred Texts
TheKoran,theBible,andotherbooksareperceivedashaving
inherentmagicalpowerbecausetheyaresacredtexts.Sacred
texts are not restricted to monotheistic faiths. The works of
HomerandVirgil,theIndianVedas,andtheChineseI-Ching
orBookofChangesareallconsideredsacredtexts.Thecru-
cialquestion,intermsofsuccessfulspell-casting,is“areany
ofthosetextssacredforyou?”Sacredtexts,bydefinition,are
soinherentlychargedwithbarakaandhekathat,likeasaint
from beyond the grave, anyone may access that power.
However,magicisbothinthetransmitterandthereceiver;it
isareciprocalprocess.Themostpowerfulsacredtextsforyou165/901
arethosethatyouperceiveassacred.Ifyoursacredtextsare
Broadway show tunes or doowop songs, then incorporate
themintoyourspellsinthesamemannerthatyouwouldany
other sacred text.
Methodsforthemagicaluseofpsalmsandsacredtexts
include:
• Whispering texts over a cup of water, which is
then given to someone to drink (although the
spell-castermayalsodesiretodrinkit,depending
on the purpose of the spell)
• Writingtextsdownonpaper,thendissolvedinli-
quidanddrunk(bythespell-casterorthetarget
of the spell: this derives from ancient Egyptian
methods)
• Wearingthemasamulets,forempowermentand
to transmit constant, consistent magic energy
• Tracingthemonanapplewithapin;depending
onthenatureofthespelltheappleistheneaten
by the spell-caster or fed to the spell’s target
Books of Shadows
Manypractitionersliketokeeparecordofspellscastandcre-
ated.Blankbooksarefilledwithmagicspells.Eventually,es-
peciallyifyouincorporatemagicalinksanddesignsintoyour
BookofShadows,thebookitselfwillbehighlychargedwith
magic power.
Booksthemselvessometimesneedprotection,andmugwort,
wormwood,andSaintJohn’sWortarebelievedtophysically166/901
preserve books. They provide spiritual protection and keep
page-nibbling vermin away.
• Place leaves of these protecting botanicals
between pages
• Maintain living plants in and around libraries
• Kabikaj is the name of the djinn with dominion
overinsects.Allegedlywritinghisnameinbooks
andonmanuscriptsmagicallypreventstheirbe-
ing eaten by worms and other vermin
Paper
Many spells contain a written component. Something often
needstobewrittendown,ifonlytobeburned.Andso,paper
is required.
Classical grimoires often suggest that one uses parch-
mentorvellum,especiallywhencreatingatalisman.Thead-
vantageoftheseisdurability,althoughtheymaybedifficult
toacquirenowadays.Hoodoooftensuggeststheuseofbrown
paper.Usecut-uppaperbagsorbutcher’spaper.Theadvant-
ageofthisisthelowcost,easyavailabilityandcolor—brown
isthecolorofjustice.Thispaperthusenhancesanyspellthat
demands that justice be done.
Itisalsoveryeasytocreateyourownpaperwithminimal
skill and artistic talent. Children’s craft kits contain basic
paper-making supplies. A spell rarely requires more than a
sheet of paper. The advantage of making your own paper is
that one can imbue it with desired botanicals and fragrance.167/901
Paper Can Be The Spell
Certain scripts are perceived as inherently powerful, for in-
stance, Arabic, Chinese, and Hebrew. If there was a pagan
Greekbeliefthattheworldwascreatedandactivatedviathe
soundofthevowels,intraditionalJudaicteachinglifeisac-
tivatedthroughtheHebrewletters.AncientEgyptiansutilized
different scripts for different purposes, mystical and
mundane.NorthernEuropeanrunesandCelticOghamscript
are specifically for magical and spiritual use. Many contem-
poraryWiccansandceremonialmagiciansusevariousmagic-
al scripts.
Paper can create lasting amulets. The most readily ac-
cessible example is the Jewish mezuzah, attached to door-
posts.TheuseofmezuzahshasbeenadoptedbysomeHoo-
doo practitioners. Similar written amulets exist in Chinese,
Japanese, Ethiopian, Muslim, and Tibetan traditions.
PaperasweknowitwasinventedinChinain105CE,and
China remains the primary home of paper magic. Paper
charmsaretraditionallywritteninredcinnabarinkonyellow
orredpaperwithapeachwoodpen,inspecialmagicalscript
known as “thunder writing” or “celestial calligraphy.”
Charmsareusedinvariousways:pastedoverthedoororon
the walls, worn in the hair, or carried in a medicine bag.
Somepaperspellsarecreatedinorderedtobedestroyed,
viafireorwater.Destroyingthepaperspellreleasesitsenergy
into the atmosphere so that the spell can work as intended.
Sometimes water and fire are combined: some Chinese
charms are burned first, and then the ashes are mixed with
teaorwateranddrunk.Ricepaperisparticularlyeffectivefor
this as it dissolves easily in water.168/901
• Awrittenspelldoesn’tnecessarilyrequirepaper:
anancientcustomwastoinscribeaclaybowlor
plate with spells and incantations. It is then
shattered to release the energy into the atmo-
sphere.(Ifyoumakeyourownpottery,thetradi-
tionscanbecombined:inserttinypiecesofpaper
directlyintothepottery,inscribedfurther,sothe
magic is contained inside and out, then shatter.)
• Notallpaperspellsrequirewords.Spellscanbe
castwithimages.Chromolithographsincorporate
thepowerandblessingofaspirit.Theymayalso
substituteforastatue.Ifyoucan’taffordthemor
locate them, create your own. If you have no
artisticability,acollageofsacredandpowerim-
ages creates an amulet
• A traditional alternative is to write the name of
thedesireddivinityingoldinkonredpaperand
post it on the wall
Many spells suggest using “magical ink” formulas. Although
thisisneverrequired,itcanempoweraspell.Recipesforcre-
ating magic inks can be found within theFormulary.
Pen and ink are only one form of magic writing. There are
many traditions of drawing designs on the ground, particu-
larly to invite, invoke, and honor spirits. Materials used in-
clude flowers, flour, cornmeal, and special rangoli powder.
• Angelic sigils are written on paper or engraved
onto metal. Each angel has a specific sigil that
canbeusedtosummonthem.Thevèvèdesignsof
Haitian Vodou have similar purposes. Each lwa
orspirithasavèvèthatexpressesitsessenceand169/901
is thus worthy of meditation, but the vèvè may
also be used to summon and honor the spirit.
Vèvèsmaybedrawnonpaperbutaremostfre-
quently drawn on the ground. Candomble and
Romany spirits also possess sigils, as do others
• Rangoli, the women’s spiritual art of India, util-
izes rice flour with brightly colored flowers and
spices to create patterns. As Earth’s tiny
creatureseatthericeflour,theycarryimbedded
prayers and petitions to the Earth’s womb
• InBrazil,pemba,akindofchalkwhichmaycon-
tain pulverized herbs, is used to create invoca-
tional markings on Earth. Originally an African
practice,thefinestpembaisstillthoughttocome
fromAfricaandmaybeimportedandpurchased
at great cost to a less-than-wealthy practitioner
Broomsticks
Thefantasyimageofthewitchridingaroundonherbroom-
stick is actually based on fact. Broomsticks were common
ritualinstrumentsinWesternEuropeanfertilityrites.People
rode around fields, women on brooms, men on pitchforks,
jumping high in revelry to encourage crops to flourish. The
pitchfork, the male tool, would eventually be identified as
among the devil’s attributes.
Why a broom? It symbolizes the perfect union of male
and female energies, with the stick representing the male
forceplungedintoandattachedtothefemalestraw.Vestiges170/901
ofthebroom’sroleinfertilitymagicsurviveinthehandfast-
ing custom of jumping the broomstick.
InancientGreece,thebroomstickwasconsideredanat-
tributeofHecate,matronofwitchesandmidwives.Itbecame,
foratime,theprofessionalemblemofmidwifery,similartoa
barbershop pole or pawnbroker’s balls.
TheuseofbroomsticksisnotrestrictedtoEuropeanma-
gic: the symbol arose independently in Mexico as well. The
conquis-tadores,familiarwiththeseimagesfromhome,were
shocked by images of Tlazolteotl, fierce Aztec spirit of love
andwitchcraft,ridingonabroomstick,nakedbutforjewelry
and a conical bark hat, accompanied by raven and owl
familiars.
The broom is used for a variety of purposes:
• It has evolved into the emblem of witchcraft as
surelyasitoncerepresentedmidwives.Theymay
bedisplayedasasourceofprideandasadevice
to memorialize the Burning Times
• Brooms serve as an amulet against malefic magic
• Broomsareusedinavastvarietyofmagicspells,
especially those for cleansing, banishing, and
fertility
• Thebroomstickwasthetraditionaltoolusedfor
topical application of witches’ flying ointments
Various types of brooms may be used:
• Single-use ritual brooms, usually loosely put to-
gether from botanical material and taken apart
and dispersed immediately following use
• Specialritualmagicalbrooms,onlytobeusedin
ritual, as beautifully carved and crafted as any171/901
magic wand or sword. These are particularly
popular among modern pagans and Wiccans
• A plain household broom, the same one used to
sweep the floor, the staple of Hoodoo banishing
spells. Spiritual and mundane household cleans-
ings may be accomplished simultaneously,
through the use of ritual floorwashes
To Sweep or Not to Sweep?
Insometraditions,modernpaganismorWiccaforinstance,a
ritual broom may never touch the floor, let alone dust any-
thing. Brooms, whether single-use ones or exquisite hand-
craftedtools,arereservedforritualuse.Hoodoo,ontheother
hand, is practical magic: there’s no need for two brooms
where one will suffice. A household broom will serve both
mundane and magical purposes, often simultaneously, as
with the use of ritual floorwashes. Floorwashes accomplish
twopurposesatthesametime:amagicspelliscastandthe
floor is cleaned. Cleaning the floor effectively casts the spell.
This does not really indicate a split between European
andAfrican-derivedmagicalsystems.Hoodoo’sextensiveuse
ofthebroomstickmayinfactderivefromitsEuropeanroots.
However, possessing an extensive collection of expensive
tools reserved solely for ritual use has certain economic im-
plications.Oneneedsspacetokeeptheseitemsaswellaspri-
vacy to practice ritual in safety. Instead, mundane activities
cancamouflagemagicalones.Magicspellsmaybediscreetly
yetconsistentlycast,duringsucheverydayactivitiesassweep-
ing or scrubbing one’s front steps.172/901
Whether the fifteenth-century European woman, for in-
stance,whotypicallyresidedinasmall,crowdedhouselack-
ingprivacyandpersonalstoragespace,andwholivedinmor-
talfearofaccusationsofwitchcraft,wouldhaveconsideredit
safeandpracticaltomaintainabroomstickreservedforritual
useinadditiontoahouseholdtoolissomethingwemaynever
know.
• Themostbasicwitch’sbroomstickisconstructed
fromanashstick,whichprovidesconsistentma-
gical protection, bound with birch twigs, meant
to entangle low-level malicious spirits
• Analternativechoicewouldbewillowtwigs,be-
cause it is the tree belonging to Hecate, Dark
Moon Goddess and supreme teacher of magic
(Circe and Medea rank among her finer students)
• Small handcrafted brooms are crafted to be
placed and maintained on altars. Embellish the
brooms to coincide with their purpose. For in-
stance, decorate a small broom dedicated to sea
spirits with sea glass and shells
Candles
Theuseofcandlesasacommoningredientofmagicisrelat-
ively recent: until recently real candles were very expensive,
hencetheearlypopularityoflampmagic.Beeswaxwasdan-
geroustoobtain;naturalplantwaxesareverylaborintensive.
The earliest use of what we would call a candle apparently
dates to approximately 3000BCE.173/901
Thefirsttruecandlescombinedawickwithwax,oil,or
fat that solidified at room temperature, unlike the more an-
cientandcommonoillamps.Beeswaxwasaluxuryitem,as
rare in its way as sandalwood and frankincense. The most
commoncandleuntilthedevelopmentofparaffinwastallow,
animal fat, a household item. The downside to tallow is its
strong aroma. Still popular in some Latin American magical
traditions,youcanoftenfindsmalltallowcandlesatspiritual
supply stores.
Todaycandlemagichasbecomeoneofthemostpopular
formsofspell-casting,becauseoftheprevalenceofinexpens-
ivecandles.Moderncandlesaremostcommonlyformedfrom
paraffin, a petroleum wax. There are also beautiful natural
waxes:beeswax,bayberry,andcandelilla.Thematerialisin-
herently more powerful and benevolent than paraffin,
however they are much more expensive. Those who burn
candlesextensivelymayfindtheircostprohibitive.Alsothose
whopreferfigurecandlesmayhaveaverydifficulttimefind-
ing them formed from the finer waxes.
Basic Candle Magic Instructions
There are four necessary steps before a candle is burned.
1. Choosetheappropriatecandle.Candlescomeina
varietyofshapes,sizes,andcolors.Choosewhatis
appropriateforyourspell(seeTableofColorAsso-
ciations).Whenindoubt,awhitecandlewillsub-
stituteforanyother.Ifacandlemustbeburnedin
onesitting,itmaybeadvisabletoburnasmaller
candle. Likewise, if a candle is to be burned174/901
incrementally over seven days, a birthday candle
may not be the wisest choice.
2. Charge the candle. Follow the basic charging in-
structions.Holdthecandleinyourhandsandfo-
cus on the desired goal of the spell.
3. Carvethecandle.Carvinganddressingthecandle
personalizesit.Usingacarvingtool,engraveyour
name,mother’s name,birthday,astrological sigil,
andotherinformationintothewax.That’sthetyp-
icalidentifyinginformation,howeveraspellmay
specify exactly what to carve. Visualize that the
candlewillultimatelydisappearintothinair,car-
rying your magical message to the Spirit World.
Whatever you wish transmitted should be carved
into the wax. A carving tool is anything with a
sharp point. Because it will likely transmit your
mostsecretfearsanddesiresandmayretainthis
asakindof“innermemory,”it’sadvisabletokeep
carvingtoolsreservedforpersonalmagicaluse.A
verytraditionalcarvingtoolisarosethorn,which
may be disposed of with the spell remnants.
4. Dressthecandle.Noneedforlittleclothes.Dress-
ing the candle indicates that it must be anointed
with oil, commonly called a “dressing oil.” The
spellwillspecifywhichtypeofoiltouse.Theoiled
candlemaybedressedmoreelaboratelybyrolling
it in powdered herbs or color-coordinated glitter.175/901
Common Figure Candles
Thefollowingareamongthemostpopular,accessiblefigure
candles and some typical uses for them. These candles are
easily purchased in a witch store or spiritual supply store.
Candle specialty stores will have a greater variety, although
theymaynotstockcandlesthatarestronglyassociatedwith
the occult.
Cats
Black: return hexes, negativity, and evil intent
Green: good luck, money
Red: sex and romance
Cross or Crucifix
Althoughtheyexistinmanycolors,whiteismostcommonly
used
Altar candles
Uncrossing rituals
Devils
Green: fast cash and to have debts repaid
Red: sex spells
Black: domination spells176/901
Human Figure
Usemaleandfemalefigurecandlestorepresenteitheryour-
selforthetargetsofyourspells.Theycomeinavarietyofcol-
ors that can be coordinated with either the purpose of your
spell or the people they are meant to represent.
Thetypicalfigurecandleisasinglenakedmaleorfemale.
There are also special situation figure candles:
• A Couple Candle is a single candle depicting a
conjoinedmanandwoman,standingsidebyside,
dressedinweddingclothes.Useformarital,bind-
ing, and other love spells
• ALovingCoupleCandleisasinglecandledepict-
ing a naked man and woman, entwined in pas-
sionate embrace. Use for romantic and binding
spells
• A Divorce Candle is a single candle depicting a
conjoined male and female, standing back to
back. Use for divorce and other separation spells
Skulls
White: persuasion, communication, uncrossing
Black: domination, hexing, spell-reversals
Witch
For luck, love, and reversing spells177/901
To have the witch’s blessing on your endeavors
Seven Knob
Black:topreventandeliminateconflictsofpersonality,ban-
ishing spells
Red: romance, emotional issues
Green: employment, luck, finances
Usuallyoneknobisburnedpertwenty-fourhourperiod,
so that it takes seven days to burn the candle entirely.
Types of Candle
Double-ActionCandleshavetwocolors,usuallyredandblack
orgreenandblack,onecolumnofcoloratoptheother.They
are usually burned to increase beneficial forces and dispel
harmfulinfluence.Triple-ActionCandleshavethreelayersof
color.
Reverse-Action Candles are red candles coated with a
layer of black wax. Similar to Double-Action Candles, al-
though some feel Reverse Actions have a more powerful ef-
fect.Usethesetoreversenegativespellsandsendthemback
where they came from.
Seven-DayCandlesaredesignedtoburnoverapproxim-
atelyaseven-dayperiod.Theycomeinmanycolorsandmay
be used for virtually any purpose. Typically Seven-Day
Candlesareencasedinaglasssleeve.Onceuponatime,the
candlesslidoutofthesleevesforeasydressing.Thisisrarely
the case any longer.178/901
Youcanstilldressaglass-encased Seven-DayCandle:drill
holes into the top of the candle to insert your oil. Sprinkle
with herbs and glitter dust.
ThebasicSeven-DayCandleisonesolidcolorandcomesina
clear glass sleeve. Manufacturers also market Seven-Day
Candleswithspecialsleeves.Thesewillhavespecialdesigns
ontheglass.Thedesignmaydepictasaintorspirit,suchas
SaintAnthony,SaintExpedite,ortheSevenAfricanPowers.
Theactualcandle’scolorwillbechosentocoordinatewiththe
spirit.
Thecandlemayalsobeintendedtocoordinatewiththe
goal of a spell: gambling luck candles, for example, will be
green and the sleeve may be decorated with images of dice,
cards, horseshoes, and other lucky charms. Or, the candle
may be manufactured to coordinate with a specific formula
oil: an Uncrossing Candle to use with Uncrossing Oil, for
instance,oranEssenceofBendOverCandletobeusedwith
that oil.
Thesedecoratedsleevecandlesessentiallybecomeaspell
unto themselves. Those dedicated to saints and spirits may
havesuggestedprayersorpetitionsprintedonthebackofthe
sleeve.Usethesecandlestoenhanceanyspelldedicatedtoa
spirit.Manyareavailable,especiallythoseoftheHindu,Ro-
man Catholic, Santeria, Vodou, and Unofficial Saint persua-
sions. If you can’t find one dedicated to the spirit of your
choice,orifthereisaparticularimagedeartoyou,decorate
your own sleeve:
1. Obtain a Seven-Day Candle in the color of your
choiceinsideaclearsleeve.(Candlesupplystores
may sell empty sleeves.)179/901
2. Attachyourimageoraphotocopyoftheimageto
thecandle.Acraftstorewillsellspecialgluesthat
adhere to glass.
3. Decoratewithglitterglueorwithobjectsappropri-
atetothepurposeofthecandle.Attachshinyimit-
ation coins to a candle dedicated to Lakshmi, for
instance.
Usingthismethodyoucanpersonalizeacandleforanypur-
pose:putyourex-lover’simageonaSummoningSeven-Day
Candle to draw him or her back into your life, for instance.
When a candle has burned down, reserve the glass
sleeve. Refill Seven-Day Candles are available. Just carve,
dress, and slip into the sleeve.
Keep an eye on the flames for more than fire safety: they
provideanoracularresponsetoyourspell.Observewhether
thecandleburnsstrongwithabrightsteadyflameorwhether
it’samoodyflame,alternatelyburninghighandlow.Some-
timesacandleburnsveryfastwhileothertimesit’sveryslow.
If you habitually burn standardized figure candles this be-
comesveryapparent:intheory,candlesshouldburnatasim-
ilarrate.IfyourSeven-DayCandleburnsoutinsix,youknow
youhaveaspeedycandle.Flamesmayevenspontaneouslyex-
tinguish and then be impossible to relight.
There are many ways to interpret these patterns.
However, a bright, steady, healthy flame is invariably con-
sideredauspicious.Thewaythecandleburnsmayadvisere-
gardingthelikelihoodofaspell’ssuccess:acandlethatburns
brightandquickindicates thatmagicforcesarewithyou.A
low,strugglingflamedoesn’tnecessarilymeanthatyourspell
will fail—it merely indicates that it is working against tre-
mendous opposition.180/901
The patterns made by melting wax may also be inter-
preted. Any remains, ashes, or bits of wax, may be significant.
Some common candle wisdom:
• If flames shoot high, the spirit you’ve invoked is
now in your presence
• Averylow,dimflame,ontheotherhand,mayin-
dicate the presence of ghosts
Cauldrons
Manyolderspellsassumethatyouwillhavereadyaccesstoa
sourceofopenfire:ahearth,fireplace,wood-stove,orevena
bonfire,becausebeforethemodernstovethiswasanecessity
of
In most circumstances, unless a spell specifies
otherwise,itisconsideredmetaphysicalbadman-
ners to blow out ritual candles. Either pinch them
out with your fingers, or deprive them of air in-
stead. Beautifully crafted, long-stemmed, mystic-
ally themed snuffers exist and may be consec-
rated to the archangel Michael, the angel in
charge of candle magic and fire safety. Alternat-
ively, a fire-proof dish may be placed over the
flame until it goes out.
life.Inthetwenty-firstcentury,however,accesstoopenfire
may be limited, especially for urban dwellers.181/901
Anironcauldronofappropriatesizecanoftensubstitute
for a hearth or fireplace. A traditional witch’s tool, a good
cauldronhasmanyuses,frombrewingpotions,toburningin-
cense, to cooking a meal.
Charm Bags
Amagicspellinsideabag.Thereareawidevarietyofnames
for this most popular spell style, and I’ve used them some-
whatinterchangeablyinthisbook.Inadditiontocharmbag,
there’sconjurebag,medicinebag,medicinehand,mojobag,
mojo hand, just plain old mojo, gris-gris bag, ouanga bag,
dilly bag, amulet bag, magic bag, and, for the scholarly,
phylacteries.AndthosearejusttheEnglishnames!Theseare
single-handedlythemostpopularmethodofcarryingmagic-
ally charged items around the world.
The charm bag is a bag filled with one or more power
items.Somecanbeseenasaminiaturespelloranaltarina
bag.Othersarework-in-progress:anever-evolvingcollection
of power objects.
Medicinebagscanbeextremelysimple.AMoroccanspell
recommendsthatanamuletbagbefilledwithdirttakenfrom
athree-waycrossroadsandwornaroundtheneck,towardoff
the Evil Eye and/or find and maintain true love.
Medicinebagscanalsobecomplex.TheBraziliancharm
bag,thepatua,ismadefromleatherorclothandmightcon-
tain a danda root shaped into a figa, the fig hand, and be
placed between leaves of rue and mucura. Garlic and cloves
maybeadded,thenprayerswrittenoutwithspecialinkand
sewn into the bag.182/901
Sometraditionscarryamultitudeofitemsinonebag.In
NativeNorthAmericantradition,amedicinebagisinitiated
viaanactivatingagent,forinstanceapinchoftobacco,pollen,
corn kernels, sweetgrass, white sage, or a little bit of earth,
tiedintoapieceofredflannel.Othertraditionsinsistonone
item per bag; magic is forbidden in orthodox Muslim tradi-
tion,theexceptionbeingtheuseofKoranicversesasamulets.
Aseparatepouchisneededforeachamulet.Africannomads
may becovered in leather and metal talisman cases.
Thevarietyofthistypeofmagicisendless.Thecontainer
itselfbecomespartofthespell.Materialsarecarefullychosen.
FineArabicandTibetanamuletbagsarefinelycraftedfrom
metal and sometimes bejeweled. Other “bags” may be as
simpleasaknottedhandkerchief.Thedrawstringbagismost
familiar.Hoodoorecommendsredflannel,whileRomanytra-
dition suggests red silk.
Although the words are now used somewhat synonymously,
technicallya“hand”isaclosedbag,ratherthananopenone.
There’safinelinebetweenasachetandahand,largelydrawn
bythefabricit’scraftedfrom(sachetsaremuslin,handsflan-
nel)andtheitemstheycontain(asachetcontainsonlybotan-
ical material, a hand may contain a variety of materials, in-
cluding botanicals).
AlthoughmodernHoodooandConjuremagicalmostin-
variably used red flannel drawstring bags, early African-
Americanmojohands,immediatelypost-slaveryandcontinu-
ingonwards,weresewnredsquares.Withthematerialsewn
inside,theyresembleanisolatedsinglequiltsquare.Thetra-
ditional British mojo hand is very similar: two pieces of red
flannel,cutintoaheartshape,stuffed,sewntogether,andthe
outside decorated.183/901
Bags possess the advantage of accessibility, however
thereareothermethodsofcarryingcharms.Thebagmaybe
sewnintoclothes,orindividualitemssewnintoclothing,Ro-
manystyle,forprivacyandforaddedcontactwiththebody.
Igor Stravinsky wore his sacred medals pinned to his
underwear.
Insometraditionsthemojohandischargedbeforeuse.
The following is a typical ritual, common to Hoodoo and
Wicca.
Charging the Mojo
Once the bag is complete:
1. Light a match and plunge it into the bag, extin-
guishingit.(Donotsetyourbagoritscontentson
fire. Be very careful if the bag contains dried
botanicals or volatile essential oils.)
2. Spit in the bag and pull the string tight.
Analternativeversionofthemojobagisthecharmvial,pop-
ularinCentralandSouthAmerica.Insteadoffabric,metalor
leather, miniature glass bottles are filled with charms and
powerobjects,essentiallyamojohand-craftedfromglass.The
items are visible, creating a talismanic, protective effect.
Tinybottlesarerecycledformagicaluse:charmsareof-
tenmadefrommedicalampouleswithyarnorcordattached
sothattheycanbewornorhung.Theytypicallyincludelayers
ofcharms,suspendedinoilsuchasseeds,botanicals,miner-
als, tiny carvings or votive image cards.184/901
Charm bags are carried in the pocket, worn around the
neckorwaist.Theymayalsobehunguponthewalllikean
amuletorkeptdiscreetlyinsideadrawerorcabinet—asmall
altar in a bag.
Crystal Balls
Crystal balls are used for divination (scrying), and spirit
summoning.
Theartofscryingtranscendsthestereotypeofthefraud-
ulent crystal ball reader. It is an ancient and well-respected
technique. In fact, crystal balls are perhaps the most recent
evolution in the ancient art of scrying. Scrying is the art of
divinationthroughtheuseofreflectivesurfaces.Itisamong
themoredifficultdivinationtechniques,althoughperhapsthe
mostancient.Themodernclearroundcrystalballisparticu-
larly effective because it evokes the image of the moon.
However, the crystal ball is only one of many scrying
tools. Presumably the first scryer gazed into a still lake. Ro-
manimagesoftheprimalgoddessKybeledepictherholdinga
flat pan of water for divination. A scrying tool may be as
simpleasthatpanofwateroraslavishasastarsapphireor
starruby,bothfameddivinationdevices.(Shouldyoubepriv-
ilegedenoughtohaveaccesstoeitherofthesepreciousgems
and wish to try your hand at scrying, gaze at their crossed
lines and let your mind wander.) Less expensive gemstones
arealsoused:aquamarineandclearquartzstones,aswellas
polishedballs.Smokyquartzisconsideredparticularlybene-
ficial as a device for communicating with spirits or ghosts.185/901
InIndia,thewaterinthepanmaybereplacedbyapool
of ink. Egyptian techniques involved gazing into ink held in
theleftpalm.Technicallytheonlytoolrequiredisalreadyin
yourhands:buffyourleftthumbnailtoahighpolishandgaze
inside.
Unlikepansbutlikemirrorsandgemstones,crystalballs
storevisionsandmemories.Cleanseasneeded.Anewcrystal
ball must be cleansed and charged prior to its first use.
• Charge crystal balls by exposing them periodic-
ally to the light of the Full Moon
• Insometraditions,acrystalballmustbefullyac-
tivated through exposure to the light of thirteen
Full Moons before it’s ready to use
• Ifyouuseyourcrystalballforspiritualcommu-
nication,youmaywishtokeepitcoveredwitha
dark cloth between uses
Dolls
Thesearealsoknownaspoppets.“Doll”derivesfromsimilar
sources as the word “idol” while “poppet” is related to
“puppet.”Thestereotypicalwitch’sdollismadefromwaxand
stuffedwithpinstoinflictpainandsuffering.However,magic
spell dolls may be crafted from a variety of materials and
serve a variety of spell purposes. Wax dolls have been re-
coveredfromancientEgypt,sotheyhavecertainlyexistedfor
alongtime,butdollsarealsoformedfromfabric,botanicals,
wood, clay, and bone.
Dolls may be used in positive magic to:186/901
• Heal disease
• Induce love
• Unite the estranged
• Promote and enhance fertility
Ontheotherhand,dollshavealsobeenusedtocauseinjury,
impotence,fatalities,pain,insanity,andawideassortmentof
other human miseries.
Tosomeextent,moderncandlemagic,especiallytheuse
of figure candles, is an outgrowth of doll magic.
Fabrics
Inmanycases,spellsmustbeencasedinfabric.Thefabricit-
selfbecomesincorporatedintothespell.Manytraditionspos-
sess“sacred”fabrics.Inmanycases,thetechniqueneededto
create these fabrics derives from magical or spiritual tradi-
tions,suchasbatikorikat.Themostcommonfabricsusedin
spell-work are red silk and red flannel.
Spells are cast by embellishing fabric: many traditional
needle-workartsareintrinsicallyconnectedtospiritualtradi-
tions. The exquisite traditional embroidery motifs of Baltic,
Hungarian, Romany, and Slav women confer blessings,
power, protection, and fertility.
Among the most vital descendants of magic fabrics are
flags.187/901
Flags and Banners
Flags are used:
• To honor and summon spirits
• As amulets
• As protective devices
Theuseofflagsandbannersinreligionandheraldryisrooted
in this magical use. The sacred quality attributed to many
flags,includingthoserepresentingnations,derivesfromthis
history;theagitationexperiencedbythosewhofeelthattheir
flag has been “desecrated” also derives from this origin.
Symbolsincorporatedontoflagsareperceivedasprovid-
ingprotection—orathreat.Pirateflagsweren’tlimitedtothe
JollyRoger.Themorenotoriouspiratesmadesurethataspe-
cificflagtrumpetedtheirpresenceandperhapsprovidedpro-
tection for the pirate himself.
Among the most powerful examples of flags used as a
spiritualormagicaltoolareHaitiansequinedflags,so-called
Vodounflags.Sigils,symbols,andimagesofthelwaortheir
affiliated saints are reproduced onto fabric using sequins.
Magic Belts
Thiscategoryofmagictoolincludesanythingthatcirclesthe
waistorhips,andiscraftedwithmagicalintent.Thecategory
could also have been called “girdles,” a word that has fallen
outoffashionbutwasonceconsideredseductiveandmagical:
AphroditeandIshtarbothwearromantic,love-inducingbelts188/901
orgirdles, which they have been known tolend toothers in
need.Thebeltistypicallyawoman’smagicalarticle,although
notalways.Evenasawoman’sarticle,however,thebeltisn’t
exclusivelyaboutlove,seduction,andbabies.Aphroditeand
Ishtar both have martial aspects. Belts are also associated
withthepowerfulfemalewarriororisha,Oya.Beltsalsoindic-
atethatone’sloinsaregirded:theyareusedinfierce,protect-
ive women’s power spells.
Magicbeltswereoncefarmorepopularthantheyareat
present.InCro-Magnongraves,womenwereburiedwearing
cowrieshellbelts.Theylieacrosstheabdominalarea,toin-
dicate fertility. Amulets including mojo bags hang from the
belts. Ishtar’s magic belt finds its descendants among belly
dancers’spangledbelts.Themostpowerfulbeltofallmaybe
shed snakeskins for enhanced fertility and easier childbirth.
(Shedisthekeyword;it’scrucialthattheskinnotbetakenby
force.Cooperationofthesnakepowersisneeded:fertilityas
the gift of the snake.)
Thereisaneroticcomponenttomanymagicbelts.Intra-
ditionalAfrica,waistbeadswereperceivedasveryeroticand
seductiveandthusprivate.Tosomeextent,beadsmovetothe
neck to offset this aspect.
Magic Boxes
Boxes are used for a variety of purposes.189/901
Cache Boxes
Cache boxes are needed to secure ritual tools and/or small
magicalitems.Thesizeoftheboxdependsuponitspurpose:
obviously, if you wish to store swords or wands, a full-sized
chest may be required.
Amongthemostpowerfulboxesarethefollowing,indes-
cending order of power:
• Ironboxesradiateprotectivepowerandserveas
a battery, continually re-charging the box’s
contents
• Spice boxes, crafted from cinnamon and clove
wood as originally made in Indonesia
• Woodenorleatherboxesembellishedwithmagic
designs drawn with alkanet, indigo, woad, or
henna.(Althoughatemporarystainonskinand
hair, henna is a permanent dye on objects.)
Spell Boxes
Spellsarecastbyconstructingaspellbox,whichareenclosed
altarsortableaux.Ingeneral,aspellboxisfilledwithpower
itemsnecessarytoachieveagoal,althoughyoushouldfollow
directions given for specific spells. It may be a cumulative
spelldoneinincrements:itemsaregatheredonebyoneand
addedtoenhancethepowerofthebox.Sometimesaspecial
box lends itself to a magical or spiritual goal. The box itself
can become an intrinsic part of the spell:190/901
• Attach and incorporate the power items to the
box itself, such as charms, shells, beads, and
feathers
• Decoupageimagesontheoutsideorinsideofthe
box to correspond to the spell’s goals
• Embellishwithsigilsorotherfortuitoussymbols
using magic ink, henna, or another natural dye
Shadow Box Altars
Anenclosedaltarmaintains theadvantage ofdiscretion and
privacy.Certainspirits,suchasdarkmoongoddessesorsome
protective spirits may prefer an enclosed altar. Open altars
disperse their power through an area; an enclosed altar’s
powerisconcentratedwithin.Eachhasitsadvantages;choose
which suits you.
Whatisnowcalleda“shadowboxaltar”hasitsrootsin
medieval Roman Catholic religious cabinets. Shadow boxes
range in size from full-size cabinets to miniature altars con-
tained in matchboxes.
Magic Mirrors
Among the most popular and beloved of magical tools, the
magicmirroriscommontomanytraditions,beingespecially
beloved in ancient Egyptian, Chinese, Western ceremonial,
Aztec, and Italian folk magic. It is most commonly used for:
• Scrying191/901
• Spirit summoning
• Protective magic
• Romantic magic
• Lunar magic
TheancientEgyptianwordformirrorisapunforlife.Thisis
madeexplicitbytheshapeofthehandle-handmirror,which
echoestheshapeoftheankh,thesymboloflifeheldbyallthe
EgyptiandeitieswiththesoleexceptionofOsiris,Lordofthe
Dead.Thevisualaspectofthepunremainstoday,intheak-
ua’ba,thefertility-producingandthuslife-affirmingdollfrom
Ghana, whose shape also recalls the ankh.
Althoughthemirrorisareflectivetool,magicallyit’salso
believedtopossesspowersofabsorption.Likeacrystal,mir-
rorsabsorbandstoreinformation.Anythingoncereflectedin
a mirror, particularly over an extended period of time, is
“stored”andmaybeaccessedforfutureuse.Thusthemirror
isaprimarytoolfordrawingdownlunarandsolarenergy.It
alsobearsareputationasasoulcatcher.Whetherthisuseis
positive or malefic depends upon the intent of the spell-
caster.
Theearliestmirrorswerenotmadefromglassbutfrom
naturalmaterialsthatcouldbepolisheduntiltheyshoweda
reflection.
Ancient Egyptian Mirrors
Although mirrors might be created from other precious
metals(gold,silver,electrum),themosttypicalancientEgyp-
tianmirrorwasmadefrompolishedcopper.Copperisunder
the dominion of Hathor, among the most primordial of the
Egyptian deities. Hathor presides over beauty, cosmetics,192/901
love,sex,fertility,andmagic.Sheandcoppersharethesame
essence—to hold a copper mirror is to hold Hathor in your
hands.DepictionsofHathortypicallycraftedintothemirror’s
handlemakesthisexplicit.TogazeintoaHathorianmirroris
to absorb her powers of beauty, grace, and love as surely as
gazing into a lunar-charged mirror evokes the moon’s gifts.
FromEgypt,thistypeofpolishedhandmirrorwasexpor-
ted through the Mediterranean into Europe, where it would
meet its finest expression in medieval Italian hand mirrors.
Chinese Magic Mirrors
Chinese occult traditions utilize mirrors more consistently
and inventively than any other.
AllegedlyonemanbecameEmperorofChinathroughthe
useofamagicmirror.ThefavoredChinesemagicmirrorisa
small or moderately sized circular mirror attached to a
handle,craftedpreferablyfromgold,althoughotherprecious
metalsmaybeused.LiketheItalianmirror,itspowerisen-
hancedbydecoratingthemirror’sbackwithauspiciouspower
symbols.
Mirrors are traditionally used to capture and focus en-
ergy.Althoughtheuseofmirrorsoriginallyderivedfromlun-
armagic,themirrormayalsobeusedtochannelthepowerof
the sun.193/901
Drawing Down the Sun: Creating a
Solar Charged Mirror
Thisisamongtheeasiestspellsinthisbook.Itisalsopoten-
tiallyamongthemostdangerous.Ifdoneincorrectly,itcan
havetragicconsequences.Itmustnotbeattemptedbychil-
dren. Adults: remember the cautionary tale of Icarus, who
underestimated the power of the sun.
1. Onabright,sunnyday,holdasmallmirrorinthe
palm of your hand, tilted to catch direct sunlight.
2. Maintain this position for no more than a few
seconds. Nine seconds is the maximum.
3. That’s it: the mirror is charged. The sun is so
powerfulthatninesecondsisallittakes,andhalf
of that is probably more than sufficient.
4. This mirror must be reserved for magical pur-
poses. If it is accidentally used for another pur-
pose, it must be cleansed, reconsecrated, and the
ritual repeated.194/901
IMPORTANT! SAFETY
MEASURES WHILE
PERFORMING THIS SPELL
• Do not look into the mirror until the
ritual is complete and the mirror is
withdrawn from the sun: you must not
watch the reflection within the mirror
• Keep your eyes averted
• Do not perform this ritual in the vicinity
of dried paper, dried leaves or botanic-
als or anything else that could poten-
tially catch fire
• Make sure no one is nearby who could
be inadvertently blinded or burned
There are many ways to make and use magic mirrors. Any
mirrormaybeconvertedintoamagicmirror;inasenseevery
mirrorisa magic mirror.
ReproductionsofancientEgyptianmirrorsmaybeused,
as can traditional Italian or Chinese mirrors. It is also not
hardtomakeyourown.Considerwhatyouwilldowithyour
mirror. The most popular uses are:
• Divination
• Spiritual communication
• Spell-work
• Romantic or protective amulets195/901
• Banishing spells
If you are using the mirror for casting spells, spiritual com-
municationorasanamulet,youmaynotwishanyoneelseto
havetheopportunitytolookintoyourmirror.Thereforeyou
will need a small, discreet mirror. If used for divination,
whetherprofessionalorforpersonaluse,alargermirrormay
be used and perhaps left out in the open.
Mirrors are sometimes used as negative spiritual entity
detectors, something like a metaphysical cross between a
smokedetectorandamousetrap.Intheory,anylarge,power-
fulmirroriscapableofdetectingspirits.Youmaywishtouse
anantiquewallmirrorforthispurpose,althoughChinesetra-
dition recommends that a mirror for such purposes should
notbeusedforanyotheruse,butkeptcoveredwhenitsser-
vices are not required.
The Basic Western Ceremonial
Magic Mirror
This is a good all-purpose magic mirror. It is expected,
however, that you will begin the process from scratch. A
round, concave piece of glass is required.
1. Coat the back, the convex side, with matte black
paint. Apply it thickly but smoothly and evenly.
2. Allow the paint to dry.
3. Mount the mirror on cardboard or similar.
4. Place in a picture frame and embellish as you will.196/901
Another Western Magic Mirror
Thismirrorismostappropriateforspell-casting.Ithasthe
advantage of starting with a commercially manufactured
mirror.
1. Purchase a mirror.
2. Inscribe angelic formulas on the back (you may
have to carefully pry off the back of the mirror).
Formulas may be obtained from many classical
grimoires, such as The Key of Solomon or The
BlackPullet.Itisrecommendedthatyouuseyour
ownbloodforink;dragon’sbloodinkwouldbea
good substitute.
3. Bury the mirror at a crossroads under the Full
Moon,markingthespotsothatyoucanretrieveit
later.
4. Dig it up after three days.
Pow-Wow Instructions for Making
a Magic Mirror
Pow-Wow magic mirrors are most frequently used for
scrying.
1. Obtain clear glass in whatever size suits you.
2. Constructaspecialthree-sidedframe,sothatthe
mirror, once inserted, may be easily slid in and
out.
3. Cleanse and consecrate the glass.197/901
4. Make a strong infusion by pouring boiling water
over chamomile, dragon’s blood, and eyebright.
5. Let the infusion cool; then use it to “paint” one
sideoftheglass.(Useapaintorpastrybrush.)Al-
low this sufficient time to dry.
6. Paint over the same side, once again, this time
withblackpaint,sothatnowyouhaveoneblack
side and one unpainted side.
7. Whenthepaintisdry,slideitintotheframewith
the unpainted side facing up.
If at all possible, when scrying, hold this mirror so that it
points toward the physical direction of whomever or
whatever you wish to see.
In some traditions no one but you should ever
look into your magic mirror. In others, someone
else should always have the first peek inside the
mirror, preferably your animal familiar.
Consecrating a Mirror
1. Addthreespoonfulsofseasalttoadishofspring
water.
2. Stir gently until dissolved.
3. Using a new cloth or a natural sponge, use this
solution to cleanse your mirror.
4. Gently wipe it dry with another new cloth.198/901
Milagro
A milagro is a magical object most commonly crafted in the
form of an isolated human anatomical part, a heart for in-
stance,oranarm.Theseobjectsaretodaymostcommonlyas-
sociatedwithLatinAmericanmagic,howevertheirrootsare
prehistoric. These objects, known in Latin as ex-votos, have
beenfoundinwhataretodayGreece,Italy,andSwitzerland.
The most ancient are believed to derive from Iberia.
Milagrosareaveryfluidformofmagic:mostfrequently
found in miniature form, life-size milagros are sometimes
crafted in Brazil. Typically crafted from inexpensive silver-
coloredmetals,theymayalsobecarvedfrompreciousmetals
andgemstones,aswellascreatedfromwax.Milagrosareeas-
ilyobtainablefromspiritualgoodsstoresandfrommanyex-
portersofLatinAmericanartsandhandicrafts.Theycanalso
beeasilycutfromasheetoftinorcopper.Milagrosaremost
frequently used in healing spells, spirit-summoning spells,
protective spells, and romantic spells.
Mortar and Pestle
Atsomepointitisextremelylikelythatyouwillhavetogrind
something or blend some botanicals together. Mortars and
pestlesareancient,primaltools.Theycomeinmanysizesand
materials: glass, brass, marble, volcanic stone. Mortars and
pestlesarethefinestgrindingtoolsfortworeasons.First,the
tool clearly mimics the sexual act, the act of creation. And
what is magic after all but an act of creation, an act of199/901
generation?Thisismadeexplicitinoneofthemoreobscure
Greekmyths.Althoughthemorefamousstoryofthediscov-
ery of fire involves its theft by Prometheus, in another ver-
sion,Hermes,theOpenerofWays,firstcreatesfirebyvigor-
ously grinding the pestle in the mortar.
Secondly,theveryphysicalactofmanualgrindingallows
youtogrindyourintentionsintothebotanicalsinawaythat
pressing the button on a food processor cannot.
Ifyoudonothaveamortarandpestle,itispreferableto
substitutemanualmethodsratherthanafoodprocessor.You
can fold a piece of wax paper and place the material that
needstobegroundinbetweenthefold.Alternatively,youcan
smashthematerialwithahammer,whichputsthepowerof
metal inyourhand, orrollarolling pinoverit,focusing on
your desired results while you work.
Themortarandpestleisalsoawitch’svehicle:perhapsa
hintastothebotanicaloriginsofflyingointments.BabaYaga,
wildRussianforestwitchandmasterherbalist,ridesamortar
and pestle through the air, sweeping away her traces with a
broom.
Musical Instruments
Did magic adopt the use of specific musical instruments or
wasthecreationoftheseinstrumentsstimulatedbymagical
need?Theearliestmagicalritualsinvolvedmusicanddance.
Although a spellbook cannot accurately record these rituals,
these traditions continue in healing and trance ceremonies
throughout the world. Exorcisms and spiritual communica-
tion are accomplished through music.200/901
Drums and Other Percussion
Instruments
It is probably impossible to separate drums from magic.
Drumsexpressthehumanheartbeat;theyareusedforawide
variety of magical purposes, including healing, banishing,
protectiverites,andspiritsummoning.Onetypeofdrumor
another is enjoyed by virtually every culture on Earth. The
earliest visual depictions of spiritual rituals include drums.
The Egyptian protective spirit Bes is almost never seen
withouthisframedrum.SimilarlyKybele,perhapsthemost
ancientdeitystillfamiliartoustoday,carriesaframedrum.
TheuseofpercussioninstrumentsiscentraltobothBes’sand
Kybele’smythology.Interestingly,asopposedtothemodern
perception of percussion as masculine, drums, particularly
framedrumsandtambourines,wereonceidentifiedstrongly
aswomen’sinstrumentsandwereasacredtoolinmanywo-
men’s spiritual traditions.
DrummingremainscentraltoAfrican-derivedrituals,as
eachorishaandlwapossessestheirownrhythmsandsongs,
whichareusedtosummonandcommunicatewiththespirits.
Drums are also traditional shamanic tools, and tools of
divination.
Percussioniseasilyincorporatedintoritual.Manyinex-
pensive instruments are available; they are also easily
handcrafted.201/901
Flutes
These are also ancient instruments; flutes appear as a com-
ponentofmanymythsandfairytales.GreekPanandAthena
playeddifferentformsoftheinstrument.Fairytalesabound
withstoriesofmagicflutesthatmaybeusedtosummonspir-
its,allies,animals, orlovedones.ThePiedPiperisonlythe
most famous example.
• Native American cedar flutes are used for ro-
mance and seduction
• Chinesebamboospiritflutesareusedtoinvokea
specific spirit, whose name may be carved into
the bamboo
• European custom suggests that an elder wood
fluteplayedatmidnightinaremote,isolatedloc-
ation will summon spirits to you
Any other instrument may also be incorporated into spell-
work.Instrumentsmaybeplayed“live;”recordingsmayalso
be incorporated into ritual and spells.
Sieves
This seemingly mundane kitchen tool has a long history of
magicaluse.Anold-fashionedtermforasieveisariddle,as
in riddled with holes.
Thetermdoesnotreferonlytothemodernmetalstrain-
er,buttoanytypeofsifter,includinggrainwinnows.Anex-
ample ofancient multi-tasking—frame drums may have tiny202/901
perforations,sothattheymaybeusedtofinelysifthennaand
herbs, in addition to their musical uses.
Sieves have fallen out of fashion, exiled to the kitchen
cabinets, but they were once considered common magical
fare.ThesieveissacredtoIsis;shecollectedOsiris’limbsina
sieve. The sieve is also featured on many Gnostic engraved
gems. The Roman Catholic Church would later ascribe the
symbol to Satan.
Sievesareusedinmanyspells,especiallyforfertility,in-
fluencing the weather, and divination.
Swords
Magic swords have historically played a role in Chinese,
Japanese, Jewish, and Persian magic, as well as in modern
Wicca. Actual functional swords may be used or ceremonial
replicas. Use of the sword invokes primal metal magic, al-
thoughjustastherearemetalwands,therearealsowooden
swords, particularly in classical East Asian magic.
Onceuponatime,eachswordwasmadetoorder,meas-
uredtosuitthebearerassurelyasamagicwand.Craftingwas
asecretoperation.Masterswordsmithshoardedtheirformu-
las: rumors circulated periodically that human blood was
neededtoforgeamagicsword.Vestigesoftheselegendsare
still found in Japanese mythology.
Afineswordwasconsideredasmuchanindividualasa
person; each had a name, its own proclivities, and was be-
lievedtopossessapersonality.Alegendaryswordofthistype
may be observed in the movie, Crouching Tiger, Hidden
Dragon.203/901
InChinesetradition,themostvaluedmagicswordwould
be one inherited from a famous and consistently successful
warrior,evenifoneonlyintended touseitformagical pur-
poses.Thenextbestbetiseitherapeachwoodorironblade
consecratedinthenameofthefamedswordit’ssupposedto
represent.Willowandmulberrywoodarealsofavored.Simil-
arlyinWesternmagic,swordsoffamouswarriorsheldmagic-
alassociations.WeaponsoncebelongingtotheKnightsTem-
plar, for instance, that elite knightly order disbanded and
doomedbecauseofallegedoccultpractices,arepricelessma-
gical tools.
Thesword’spowermaybeenhancedthroughembellish-
ment. The grimoire, The Key of Solomon, recommends en-
graving Kabalistic inscriptions on hilts and blades. Other
powerfulembellishmentsincluderunes,sacredverses,hiero-
glyphs, and Chinese calligraphy.
Swords are used in various ceremonial rites. They are
usedforcastingcircles.Theyareaprotectivedeviceandmay
be used in exorcisms and to repel malevolent spirits. When
notinuse,swordsarekeptwrappedinfabric,especiallyred
silk.
Notallmagicswordsareactualswords.SmallChineseamulet
swordsareconstructedfromcoinsandredsilkcord,andem-
bellishedwithacomplexseriesofknotsandtassels.Typically
inexpensive, they are readily available through Chinatown
marketsandfengshuisources.Thesecoinswordsserveasa
protectivedeviceaswellastalismanstobalanceandimprove
finances.
Inadditiontofull-sizedswords,knivesanddaggersalso
have magical uses.
Themostfamousritualknifeistheathame,theWiccan
ceremonial knife. It is reserved exclusively for ritual use: in204/901
particular,itcannotbeusedtodrawblood.Incaseofaccident
or emergency, it must be purified and re-consecrated. You
maycraftoneyourselforfindaninterestingknifeordagger
andconsecrateittothepurpose.Amongitsusesareinscrib-
ing the circle for magic, mixing potions and charged waters.
Likeswordsandwands,thepowerofknivesanddaggers
may be enhanced through embellishment.
Magic Wands
Because magic wands are such an important component in
portrayalsoffantasymagic,it’scrucialtopointoutthatitis
not the wand that works; it is the practitioner. The wand is
merelyatoolwithwhichtodirecttheuser’swillorintention.
Obviouslysomewandsaresuperiortoothers;certainwands
suitcertainpurposes,practitioners,ortraditionsbetterthan
others.
Historically, magic wands are common to magic tradi-
tions all overEarth. Today, theyare especially significant in
Druid, Wiccan, and High Ritual traditions. Wands are used
forspiritualandreligiousritualpurposesaswellasamagical
tool.Sometraditionsrequireuseofawand—itisamandatory
magical tool. Let it be noted, however, that not every
practitioner,spell-caster,orwitchusesawand.Itisnotare-
quirement for magic.
We enter the realm ofvery personal magic with wands:
some practitioners collect wands, preferring different woods
fordifferentmagicalpurposes.Othersdesireonlyonewand,
withwhichtheycanforgeanintensiverelationship,thewand
virtuallybecominganextensionofthebody.Therearethose205/901
forwhomanexquisitely,meticulouslycraftedwandisanab-
solute necessity. Others prefer to work with an unornamen-
ted, uncarved branch, a fallen stick, or a piece of driftwood.
Insomecases,particularlywhereprivacyisanissue,sub-
stitutions may be made. A folded-up umbrella serves nicely
for discreet, outdoor rituals. In that case, treat the umbrella
liketheritualtoolthatithasbecome,givingitthesamecare
and consideration as a more traditional magic wand.
Althoughwandsarefamouslywooden,metalwandscan
beextremelyeffectivetoo.MasterMagusAleisterCrowley,for
instance, typically alternated between two wands: a heavy
cast-iron wand and a lighter wooden wand, usually almond
wood.
Finding Your Wand
• Wandsmaybeinheritedfromanotherpractition-
er, a mentor, or coven member
• You may receive a new one as a gift
• Youcanpurchaseapre-craftedone:askilledar-
tisancanoftencreateanaestheticallymorebeau-
tiful wand than a layperson, if this is important
toyou.Thereareprofessionalwand-crafterswho
willcraftawandtosuityourspecificdesiresand
needs
• You can craft your own
Ifyouinheritorpurchaseaready-madewanditiscrucialthat
it be cleansed of previous influences and charged with your
ownpersonalenergyandvibration.Ofcoursethereisalways
therareexception:ifyouhaveinheritedawandfromapartic-
ular powerful and revered practitioner—if you’ve discovered206/901
Merlin’s very own wand, for instance—you may not wish to
erase previous vibrations but to maintain and build upon
them.
1. Hold a quartz crystal between your hands and
charge it with your energy and power.
2. When the wand is not in use, wrap the crystal
around it with a piece of red silk.
3. Rollthewand,withtheattachedcrystal,intoblack
velvet and let them remain together.
4. Periodically, cleanse and re-charge the crystal.
Crafting a Wand
The traditional length of a magic wand is eighteen inches
long, or from your elbow to the tip of your forefinger.
To Cut or Not to Cut?
Asusual,muchdependsupontradition.IntheRomanytradi-
tion, branches are not cut. Instead, one looks for the right
branchtoappear.Magicwandsaregiftsofthetreesand,in
fact,wandsareusedveryspecificallyintreemagic—magicto
calluponthepowerofthetreesandtheirpresidingspirits.If
youdesireaspecifickindofwoodorcraveawandfromaspe-
cifictree,onemayrequestthatthetreedropabranch,andre-
turnperiodicallytoseeifthewishhasbeengranted.Ifitis,
eventhoughnocuttingisdone,alibationisstillofferedatthe
spot where one picks up the branch.207/901
Before you cut a branch, remember to ask permission
fromthetree.Thebranchwillalwayscontaintheessenceof
thetree,andwillworkmoreharmoniouslyanddependablyif
it is received in a spirit of cooperation.
1. Lookforahealthytreethatcanaffordtogiveyoua
branch.Havingchosenyourtree,shouldyoudis-
coveranappropriatebranchwaitingforyou,fallen
ontheground,orhangingfromthetree,thisisan
extremely auspicious sign, a true gift of the tree.
The wand created from this branch offers you
great power.
2. Talktothetree.Reallytalk—speakoutloud.This
enhancestherealityofthesituationforyou.Leave
somesilenceinordertoreceiveanswers,aswell.
Explain why you want a branch and ask permis-
sion to take one.
3. Get a response. To receive your answer:
• Use divination: consecrated wooden
runes are ideal communication tools,
as is the simpler flipping a coin
• Sitquietlybythetreeandwaitforthe
answer to become clear to you
• Request a sign: if you see a red bird
within the next five minutes, for in-
stance, your request is granted
• Request that the tree or its presiding
spirit answer you in your dreams
4. Cut as swiftly and painlessly as possible.
5. Offeralibation:waterisarequirement.Youmay
also offer an exchange of gifts: honey, tobacco,
wine or spirits, crystals and gemstones are
traditional.208/901
6. Take the wood and carve the wand.
7. Embellish, if you like, by carving runes or other
magical symbols into the wand. Add a crystal to
the tip or enhance with feathers, fabric, and
stones. Let your personal magical vision guide you.
Choosing Your Wood
Althoughspecifictypesofwoodarefavoredinvarioustradi-
tionsandforvariouspurposes,realisticallythesemaynotex-
istasanoption.Mostofushaveaccesstoonlylimitedtypes
of wood. Neither should we search out endangered or rare
specimens.
Nowoodwillworkaswellforyouasthewoodfromatree
with which you have forged an alliance:
1. Developarelationshipwiththetree:visitit,talkto
it, bring it gifts, listen to it.
2. Whenyou’reready,eitherrequestabranchorwait
until one is given to you.
3. Havingobtainedyourwand,ifyoucontinueyour
relationshipwiththeparenttree,youwillcontinue
to enhance the power of your tool. Re-energize
your wand by resting it against the roots of its
mother tree.
Good all-purpose wands include ash, hawthorn, hazel, and
rowan. Lightning-struck wood is considered packed with
power.Driftwoodmakesanexcellentwand;itdoesnothave
to be cut and combines the powers of Earth and sea.209/901
Some woods are favored for specific purposes and thus
somepractitionersprefermultiplewandsforusewithdiffer-
ent purposes.
• Divination: ash, rowan, willow
• Exorcism: date palm, tamarisk
• Healing magic: hazel
• Love magic: apple, ash tree (a.k.a. Venus of the
Woods)
• Necromancy: cypress
• Prosperity magic: ash
• Protective wands to ward off malicious spirits
and malevolent magic: blackthorn, olive, rowan
• Spirit work: elder
Favored Woods for Magical
Wands According to
Tradition
• Ainu: bamboo, with leaves remaining. Top
carved into spiral designs
• Berber: oleander
• Celtic: hawthorn, hazel
• China: peach, willow
• Druid (British): hawthorn, rowan, yew
• Druid (Gaul): oak
• Romany: elm
• Russian, Slavic: birch
• Scythian: willow210/901
Wands are not limited to wood. Metal wands are excellent
power conductors. Embellish with crystals, seashells, and
charms. Copper is a particularly excellent conductor of en-
ergy. An iron wand provides power and protection.
Specialized Wands
• A wand for love and seduction: copper topped
with rose quartz
• Lunar wand: place a moonstone atop a silver
wand, for moon, love, and fertility magic
• Amermaid’swand:driftwoodtoppedwithcoral,
pearls or shells for lunar, love, fertility, and
money magic as well as rituals by the sea
• A highly protective ritual wand: wrap copper
wirearoundanironwand,embellishwithhemat-
ite and black tourmalines
• A quartz crystal tip empowers any all-purpose
wand
• Arosequartzattachedtothewandenhancesro-
mantic spells
• Amethysts empower spiritual quests and
cleansings
• Black tourmalines, Herkimer diamonds and
smoky quartz used to embellish a wand provide
added protection during ritual use
Wrap your wand in leather, red silk or other magical fabric
when not in use. Store it in a box for safety, if you like,
however wrap it in cloth first.
Foroptimumpower,keepyourwandbesideyouasmuch
aspossibletoabsorbyourenergyanddesiresandharmonize211/901
yourvibrationalenergies.Manysleepwiththeirwands,either
beside them in bed or beneath them.
Staff
Thedistinctionbetweenwandsandstaffsoftenhastodowith
size: a staff is thicker and substitutes as a walking stick. In
theory, a staff should be long and solid enough to lean on.
HistoricallyassociatedwithancientEgyptianandSemiticma-
gic,staffsareassociatedwiththeBiblicalMosesandhisEgyp-
tian opponents.
The modern staff is most associated with Obeah, the
Africanderived traditions native to the British West Indies.
TheObeahStick,alsocalledanObiStick,isacarvedwooden
staff,usuallyfeaturingaserpentmotif.Thesimpleronesare
carved so that a snake-like groove encircles the staff. The
moreelaborateStaffofMosesusuallyfeaturesasnakecarved
frombottomtotop.Staffsmaybehollowedoutandfilledwith
botanicals.
Divining Rods
Hazel twigs and forks cut on Midsummer’s Eve are recom-
mended for divining purposes.212/901
Fans
Afoldingfan,heldclosed,maysubstituteforamagicwand.
Fansmayalsosubstituteforbroomsticks.Anenchantressin
theArabian Nightsreveals herself by riding a fan.
Fansarealsousedinavarietyofmagicaltraditions,not
assubstitutesbutintheirownright.Chinesemagicfavorsthe
sandalwood fan, especially for protective purposes. The fan
creates a personal psychic and spiritual shield. Sandalwood
possessessacred,benevolent,protectivequalities.Thesemay
beenhancedthroughornamentation:fansarefrequentlyem-
bellishedwithmagicalimagesand/orwords.Strengthenand
maintain the fan’s power by periodically passing it through
sandalwood incense smoke.
Aswithwandsorstaffs,fansarenottoolstobeshared.
When not in use, the fan should rest discreetly hidden,
wrapped in fabric, and placed in a magic box.
The powerful Yoruba orisha, Oshun, counts peacocks
amonghersacredbirds.Devoteeskeeppeacockfeatherfans
inherhonor.Theyareusedinritualstohonorherandwhen
nottheyarenotinusearekeptonheraltar.Peacockfeather
fansarealsoappropriateforusewithotherspirits,suchasthe
Hindu Lakshmi and the Roman Juno.
Fans crafted from various types of feather or an intact
bird’swingcompletewithfeathersareusedinNativeAmeric-
anandNativeAmerican-influencedtraditionsasadevicefor
wafting incense, especially for cleansing purposes.213/901
Key Magical
Techniques
Bathing
Although this may seem like the magical equivalent of in-
structions for boiling water, many spells are accomplished
throughbaths.Variousmagicaltechniquesincreasetheodds
of a spell’s success.
• Ingeneral,itisbeneficialtosubmergecompletely
in the water at least once, although some spells
may specify the number of submersions
• When you want to rid yourself of something—a
problem, bad debts, your annoying boy-
friend—bathe down and out: start at the top,
workyourwaydownyourbodyandoutthearms
and legs
• When you want to draw something toward
you—love, cash, or a job—start at the feet and
move in toward your heart. Start at the ends of
your hands and move inwards
• Allowyourselftoairdry.Dryingyourselfwitha
towelwipesmuchoftheresidue,theauraofthe
bath,offyourskin.Nothingwillhappenifyouuse
atowelbutyouwillreceiveconsistentlystronger,
better results if you take the time to air dry214/901
Whatmaybethemostancientmagicaltechniquesofallmay
be unfamiliar to the modern practitioner—foot track spells
and knot magic.
Foot Track Magic
“Leavenothingbehindbutyourfootprints”—orsogothein-
structions for today’s eco-tourists. Even footprints, however,
havetheirmagicaluses.Foottrackmagic,asitsmodernname
goes,ismostcloselyassociatedtodaywithHoodootraditions.
But it is actually aparticularly primal, international magical
technique. There are oblique references to it in the Talmud.
InstructionsattributedtoPythagorasforbadepeopletopierce
footprintswithnailorknife,althoughsimilarspellsarecon-
tained in this book.
This ancient practice derives from dry lands, where a
footprintlingers.Tosomeextent,menlendthemselvesmore
tofoottrackmagicbecauseoftheirgenerallyheavier,deeper
imprints.
Therearetwovarietiesoffoottrackmagic:inone,usu-
allyusedforbanishingorhexing,somethingisdonetotheac-
tualfootprintintheground.Theothermethodistoscoopup
thedirtfromthefootprintinitsentirety.Thiswillusuallybe
later combined with other ingredients for magical purposes,
both positive and malevolent.
Whengatheringupfootprints,itisvitaltothesuccessof
thespellthattheentirefootprintisgathered.Itisalsocrucial
(and not always simple to determine) that one obtains the
footprint of the correct person!215/901
Knotting
Knotsaresointrinsicallyandancientlyconnectedwithmagic
thattyingknotswasoncesynonymouswithmagicingeneral.
The art goes back to the Babylonians and who knows how
muchfurtherbackinunrecorded history.TheHebrew word
foramulet,kame’a,hasarootmeaning“tobind.”Knottingis
the original binding spell.
Any intension or force can be tied or controlled by the
knot.Whatseparatesthemagicalknotfromtyingashoelace
is the focus and intention of the one making the knot.
However,theactoftyingashoelacecanbetransformedintoa
magicalact:tieachild’ssneaker:focusonblessingandpro-
tecting as you pull the knot tight.
Inaknotcharm,itgoeswithoutsayingthatyouarefo-
cusingandconcentratingyourenergywitheveryknot.Mater-
ials used in knot charms include threads, cord, plant stems,
metal wire, animal or human hair.
Knotscanbeusedforpositiveormalevolentintent.Com-
mon uses of knot magic include love, healing, wealth, and
weather spells (i.e., controlling the wind and rain).
Knotsareusedtobindintent,andalsotoremovespells.
They are common Celtic, Chinese, Egyptian, and Scythian
motifs. The concept of the “lover’s knot” lies in ancient love
knot magic. Some believe that the inspiration for the ring
arose from knot magic.
The animal patron of knot magic is the spider.216/901
Basic Knot Spell
1. Focusonyourgoalanddesire,whileholdingared
cord in your hands.
2. Tie a knot.
3. Wrapitinfabric,placeitinamagicboxandkeep
it in a safe, secure location.
A Traditional Knot
Incantation
This incantation accompanies the tying of nine knots.
By knot of one, the spell’s begun!
By knot of two, my spell comes true
By knot of three, so mote it be
By knot of four, power I store
By knot of five, my magic is alive
By knot of six, this spell I fix
By knot of seven, this spell I leaven
By knot of eight, it is fate
By knot of nine, what’s wished is mine!Animal Spells
Isittimetomeasurethecatforamagicwand?Perhaps
theparrotneedstolearnsomechants?Maybethereisasetof
dominationspellssothatthedogcanforceyoutowalkhim
ontheschedulehechooses?No,spellsregardinganimalsare
stillmeantforpeopletoperform,althoughsomebenefitfrom
someanimalassistance.Manyofthesespellsinvolveprotect-
inganimalsfromphysicalandspiritualharm.Othersbenefit
humans, through the power and gifts of animals.
Magical Partners
Animalswhoparticipateinyourspellsandrituals,enhancing
them with their own powers, tend to fall into one of two
categories:
• Familiars
• Allies
Theconceptofananimalasapetisamodernone.Thosewho
possessed this concept of interspecies friendship ahead of
their time often found themselves condemned for witchcraft
on grounds of familiarity with demonic creatures like cats,
birds, rabbits, black dogs, reptiles, and amphibians. Sounds
likewhatyou’dfindforsaleinanylocalpetstore?Well,famil-
iaranimalsareexactlythat:familiar.Theclassicwitch’scat,
rabbitortoad,afamiliarisanactual,individualanimalwith
whom one can live and share an intense psychic, personal218/901
bond. If this characterizes a relationship you have ever had
with an animal, then you have had a familiar, regardless of
whether you engaged in magical practices together. A dog
who won’t sleep unless it’s under your bed, the cat who fol-
lows you from room to room, the bird who spends the day
perched on your shoulder: these all qualify as familiars.
Afamiliar’spresencemaybesufficienttosparkanden-
hance your magic, whether there is any conscious active in-
volvementornot.Forothers,thepsychicandmagicalbonds
possible between animal and human create profound power
and satisfaction.
In general, familiars are creatures who can realistically
livewithyou:cats,dogs,rabbits,birds,toads,andsnakesare
mosttypical.Thoselivingandworkingcloselywithotherspe-
cies—those species that usually do not live among
people—may discover psychic and magical bonds, as well.
Wild animals that remain wild can also qualify as familiars,
thoughinvariablytheychooseyouratherthantheotherway
round.Theseincludethosebirdsorbeesthat,takingaliking
tosomeoneinthefamily,stopbydaily.Scandinavianwitches
traditionally favored flies as familiars. Wild dolphins occa-
sionally single out an individual human and initiate a rela-
tionship. It is not unknown for people living on the edge of
woodsorinawildernessplacetodevelopaspecialrelation-
ship with an individual creature.
Afamiliarisaspecific,individualcreaturewithwhom
you have established a psychic bond. Of course, this limits
thecreatureswithwhomyoucanmagicallyinteract.Whatif
yourmagicrequiresarhinocerosorcrocodile?Whatifitre-
quires a dragon or unicorn?
Afamiliarmaybeconsideredananimalallybutanimal
alliestranscendtheboundariesoffamiliars.Animalalliesare
aformofspiritualrelationship:becausetherelationshipmay219/901
occur entirely in the realm of spirit, any animal may be ap-
proached.Thepresidingspiritoftheanimalmayalsobeap-
proached, rather than any individual creature.
A person may have as many familiars and/or allies as
needed.
Animal Images
Amongtheoldestexistinghumanartifactsarethebeautifully
detailed prehistoric cave paintings, indicating the profound
magical link between humans and animals. Small portable
imagesofspecificanimals,usuallycraftedfromclayorstone,
havealsobeenusedsinceancienttimesforassortedmagical
purposes, especially healing, hunting, and protection, and
pursuit of enhanced psychic power.
The Zuni, a Native American people from New Mexico,
have turned this tradition into an art form. Zuni stone fet-
ishes, miniature carvings of specific animals, were originally
createdforceremonialandhuntingpurposes.Todaymostare
intricatelycarved,displayingthecreator’sartistryandskills.
Originally,thiswasnotthecase:Earthprovidedtheartistry
andthemagic.Traditionalfetish-carverssearchedforstones
where the shape of the creature was already apparent. At
most,minimalshapingwasneededtoseetheanimalwithin.
Because the stone charm is discovered, rather than con-
sciouslycreated,theanimalspiritisgiventheopportunityto
choose you rather than the reverse.
1. Search for similar stones. You will recognize one
when you see it; like holed-stones these are gifts
from Earth.220/901
2. Chargeandconsecrateyourstonefetishbyplacing
itinamagicboxtogetherwithimages,food,and
magical botanical activators. Traditionally corn
pollenwasusedtofeedandactivatethefetish;use
whatever seems appropriate and sacred to you.
3. Whennotinuse,keepyourfetishprotectedinits
boxorcontainer.Feeditonscheduletokeepitac-
tivated and powerful.
Animal Communication Spell: Eve
Oil
Eve Oil may be used to assist and enhance communication
with animals.
1. Place apple blossoms, dried pomegranate seeds,
and snake root in a bottle.
2. Cover with sweet almond and jojoba oil.
3. Dresscandleswiththisoiltoaccompanyvisualiza-
tion as well as actual physical communication.
Familiar Consecration Spell
Tocementand/orformalizethepsychicbondsbetweenyou
and your familiar:
1. Castacirclelargeenoughtoholdyou,yourfamili-
arandanymagical toolsthatyouwishsimultan-
eously to consecrate (these may include leashes,221/901
collars or similar pet paraphernalia, as well as
spell components or ritual tools).
2. Burn frankincense on the periphery of the circle.
3. Sitwithinthecircle,withyourfamiliar,untilyou
feel that it’s time to come out.
4. Repeat as needed.
Livedangerously! Ifyourfamiliarisacat,castyourcircle
withdriedcatnip,andinsteadoffrankincense,burndiviner’s
sagetoenhanceyourpowersofprophesy.Letthecatplay,
while you allow yourself sudden bursts of inspiration.
Althoughyoucanbringanyanimalintoyourhome,youcan-
not force it to be your familiar. This profoundly affectionate
relationship, built on love, respect, and personal chemistry,
mustdevelopindependently.Likewise,animalalliancescan-
not be forced.
Theymay,however,berequested.Manybelievethatwe
are each born with the alliances we need, whether animal,
botanical,orspirit.Thekeyistodiscoverthesealliancesand
learn how to work with them for maximum power and
benefit.
Variousmethodsexistfordiscoveringalliesandrequest-
ingnewrelationships.Manycardbaseddivinationsystemsex-
ist. Animal allies also manifest themselves in your dreams.
Any animal or species that appears consistently to you,
whetherindreamsorinwakinglife,maybeanally,ormay
potentially become one.
Ifyoudesireaspecificalliance,requestitviaacombina-
tion of your altar and visualization:222/901
Animal Ally Invitation Spell
1. Choose a focal image for your altar, something
thatrepresentsyourallyforyou.Useatoy,apho-
tograph,oranimage.Itismorecrucialthatitres-
onates strongly for you than that it be a literal
depiction.
2. Surrounditwithobjectsorimagesthatwouldnor-
mally be used to lure this creature. A dish of
honey,forinstance,summonsabear.Makethein-
vitation as strong as possible.
3. Ifyoucanfindcandlesintheshapeofyourdesired
ally or its food, add them to the altar.
4. Grind cinnamon and frankincense together and
burn them as a spirit-summoning incense.
5. In addition to Step 2, offer literal food (a dish of
milkforasnake,forinstance).Alternatively,burn
images of appropriate food.
6. Relax. Let your eyes go slightly out of focus and
await visitations.
7. Try this for up to thirty minutes a day, until you
receive results.
Although this spell requests a waking vision, realistically
yourresponsemaystilloccurduringyourdreams:havepa-
per and pen by your bedside to record any significant
dreams.
Sometimes familiars and allies are discovered for you.
IntraditionalMexicoandCentralAmerica,manysham-
ansandwitchesarebelievedabletotransformthemselvesin-
to animals, known as nagual. A coyote observed walking223/901
downtheroadmaybearegularcoyoteoritmaybeawitchin
disguise.IntheMexicanstateofOaxaca,however,adifferent
conceptexists.Thenahual(asitisspelledinOaxaca)isper-
ceivedtobeaguardianspiritacquiredatbirth,asacredgift
from parents to their child.
Animal Ally Spell (Leni-Lenape)
Sometimesamoreconcretefamiliarisdesired.Accordingto
a Leni-Lenape Indian tradition, babies are given a living,
tangibleanimalally,ratherthanjustanabstractprotective
spirit.Usuallyapuppyorkittenischosen,orsomeotherap-
propriatecompanionanimal.Theanimalistreatedasapet
andencouragedtobethechild’scompanion.Thesepetsare
not shared: every child has his or her own. This is a life
partnership.
• Should the animal die, it is perceived as having
been a buffer for the child, essentially having
takenthe“hit”meantforthechild,particularlyif
the child has been threatened by illness or acci-
dent. The animal is buried with ceremonies, re-
leasingthechildfromtherelationship.Thechild
is given another pet immediately
• Should the child die, funeral rituals release the
animal from the bond
Animalsmayalsobededicatedtospecificspirits,notjustto
humans. This creates a profound triangular relationship
betweenhuman,spirit,andanimal.InanindigenousSiberian
ritual, the animal dedicated to the deity lives a charmed life:224/901
Animal Spirit Dedication Ritual
1. A specific animal is chosen to be dedicated to a
specific deity.
2. Purify the animal with juniper incense.
3. Sprinkle it with wine.
4. Decoratetheanimalwithribbonsincolorsassoci-
ated with the specific spirit.
5. The animal is returned home or to its flock. It is
nowneverridden,worked,oreaten,butisinstead
treatedexceptionallywell(oratleastleftaloneto
enjoylife)asagestureofsacrificialdevotion.This
treatmentmaybeextendedoverthecreature’sen-
tirenaturallifeorforaspecifiedperiodoftime,al-
thoughthismustbestipulatedfromthefirstiniti-
ation of the ritual.
Animal Healing Spells
Circle of Healing
Cast a circle with blooming thistles: demarcate the entire
circleorplaceonebloomineachofthefourcardinalpoints.
Bringtheanimalwithinthecircleinordertointensifytheef-
fects of any healing or cleansing spells.225/901
Saint Benedict’s Healing Spell
In his lifetime, Saint Benedict persecuted pagans and
witches. One wonders how he would have reacted had he
known that, centuries later, he’d be magically petitioned to
assist ailing animals?
BurnawhitecandlededicatedtoSaintBenedictandof-
ferhimaglassofbrandyorBenedictine.Makeyourpetition
ofhealing;SaintBenedict’sanimalallyisthecrow.Lookfor
the appearance of a crow to indicate a response to your
petition.
Masterwort Strength Spell
Masterwortallegedlyimpartsgreaterphysicalstrengthand
hasthusbeenusedtoassistbeastsofburden.Placemaster-
wort in an amulet bag and attach to the animal as desired.
Lost Animal Spells
Crossroads Lost Animal Spell
A Russian method for calling lost animals home involves
journeying to a crossroads, where, magically speaking at
least,roadsmergeandseparateandyouneverknowwhoor
what might turn up from any direction at any time.226/901
1. Go to a crossroads.
2. Face west, the direction of the setting sun.
3. Bow from the waist nine times.
4. Do this three times, for a total of twenty-seven
bows, calling the animal as you normally would,
and also chant prayers and petitions and recite
sacred texts.
5. Don’t stop calling and/or petitioning until three
series of nine bows each are complete, then take
ten steps backward without turning around.
6. Turn around and go home.
When an animal goes missing, one common immediate re-
sponseistopostsignsrequestinginformationandassistance
fromothers.ThisnextRussianspelltakesthatnotionastep
further: assistance is requested from Earth’s various spirit
powers, so that they will locate and send your animal back
home.Aswithstandardsigns,arewardisposted.Shouldthe
spell work, be sure to pay it. (The Forest Tsar is chief of all
woodlandspirits;theWaterTsarischiefofallwaterspirits,
and so on. Adjust the spell if necessary to suit your
circumstances.)
Magical Sign Animal Spell
Writemessagesonthreepiecesofbirchbark(oneforeachof
the nature tsars) as follows:
I’mwritingtotheForestTsarandtheForestTsarinaandtheir
small children.227/901
I’mwritingtotheEarthTsarandtheEarthTsarinaandtheir
small children.
I’mwritingtotheWaterTsarandtheWaterTsarinaandtheir
small children.
I’m writing to inform you that [INSERT YOUR NAME] has
lost a[INSERT COLOR, GENDER, DESCRIPTION]
[INSERT TYPE OF ANIMAL INCLUDING AS MUCH
DESCRIPTIVE MATERIAL AS YOU FEEL IS
NECESSARYTOIDENTIFYANDDISTINGUISHYOUR
ANIMAL FROM OTHERS].
Ifyouhavehim/herpleasesendhim/herbackwithoutdelay-
ing one day, one hour, one minute, one second.
Ifyoudon’tcomplywithmywish,Isweartoprayandtestify
against you.
If you comply with my wish, I shall give you [INSERT
SPECIFIC PLEDGE].
Fastenonemessagetoatreeintheforest.Burythesecondin
Earth. Attach a small stone to the third and throw it into
some living water.
The animal is expected to find its way home shortly.
Protection Spells for
Animals
An animal’s collar provides an excellent framework for pro-
tectionspells;justremembertochargeobjectsbeforeattach-
ingthem.Youcanalsoincorporateknotmagicwhereverpos-
sible, to make the magic more powerful.228/901
The following may be attached to the collar:
• Quartzcrystaltoenhancetheanimal’sauraand
provide protection
• Rose quartz, to bestow the protective properties
of your love
• Other crystals, protective amulets, religious
medals,andsimilarmaybeattachedtothepet’s
collar as desired
Animal Candle Protection Spell
1. Find or create a candle shaped to resemble your
companion animal.
2. Carve the animal’s identifying information, pro-
tective runes, or other symbols onto it.
3. Anoint the candle withProtection Oiland burn.
Ifthecandleistoocutetoburn,gettwo.Maintainoneper-
manently, while burning the second.
Animal Image Protection Spell
Use an actual photograph of your pet or if unavailable,
choosesomething,anotherimage,statue,orcandlebearing
a strong resemblance for this spell.
1. Paintprotectiverunes,hieroglyphs,orothersym-
bols onto the image.
2. Anoint withProtection Oil.229/901
3. Keep the image in a safe, discreet spot, touching
up periodically with Protection Oil.
As an alternative, you could trace invisible runes, sigils, or
protective hieroglyphs onto the image withProtection Oil.
Assorted Spells to Protect
Domestic Animals From
Malevolent Magic
• Build your barn near birch trees
• Ifthebarnisalreadystanding,transplantbirch
trees nearby
• Adornthebirchtrees,orothernearbytrees,with
red and white ribbons
• Surround the barn with lilies and primroses.
(Maintain them, replacing as needed.)
• Bury a hatchet, sharp side up, under the barn’s
threshold, so that the animals must walk over it
as they enter and depart
• Horseshoes protect animals as well as humans.
Post them over the barn door. The Hungarian
methodistodrawahorseshoeoverthebarndoor
using black chalk
• Keep apiece ofreal silver inadishorbucket of
water,outofreachoftheanimals.Thismaybea
small charm or a real silver coin. Once a week,
sprinkletheanimalswiththiswater,thenreplace
with fresh water230/901
• Sprinkle the animals with Rose of Jericho
Wateronce a week
Animal Conjure Bag Protection
Spell
Create this charm for any companion animal that sheds
teeth.
1. Collecttheanimal’sbabyteethandplacewithina
conjure bag.
2. Add a coin minted in the animal’s birth year if
known, otherwise substitute a lucky medal or
charmplusatagwiththeanimal’snameorinitials
scratched into the metal.
3. Keep the bag in a safe place for protection.
Egg Cleansing Spell
Just like people, animals need periodic ritual protective
cleansings. (See Cleansing Spells.) Fumigations and asper-
ging, the most popular methods for people, are equally ef-
fective for animals. However this may be easier said than
done: try explaining to horses or cats that wafting smoke
overthemisreallyintheirbestinterests.Thefollowingmay
be easier to accomplish:
1. Rubtheanimalwithawhole,rawegginitsshell,
working from head to tail and down, rather than
up, the legs.231/901
2. Flushtheeggdownthetoiletforahousepet;oth-
erwise, dispose of the egg outside the home or
barn.
Hair and Wax Protection Spell
1. Collect one hair from the head and one from the
tailofeveryanimalyouwishprotected.(Substitute
one feather each from head and tail for each bird.)
2. Melt wax.
3. Add the hairs to the wax.
4. Removethewaxfromtheheatsourceandallowit
to harden.
5. Ifpossible,nowleadalltheanimalsneedingpro-
tection around the perimeter of their home, in a
sunwisedirection.Aminimumoftwopeopleisre-
quired for this: the person leading the parade
holds the block of wax in one hand and a sacred
image in the other. The person bringing up the
rear drags an axe on the ground behind.
6. Whenallanimalshavesafelyreturnedhome,bury
the wax in a safe, secret place.
Dogs
Child’s Dog Hair Medicine Bag
1. Fill a medicine bag with loose dog hair.232/901
2. Add any other lucky charms, as desired.
3. Give to a child to wear or carry for protection.
Greyhound Spirit Protection
Ahomewhereawell-cared-for,happygreyhoundliveswill
allegedly never be haunted by malicious spirits.
Pacify Threatening Dogs Spell
(Christian Pow-Wow)
Pow-Wow strongly incorporates the use of spoken charms.
Thisoneisusedtosootheathreateningdogandprovidepro-
tection—excellent for those forced to walk past a snarling,
snapping canine.
The charm must be repeated three times before you
reach the dog (or the dog reaches you!)
Dog, hold thy nose to the ground!
God has made thee, me, and hound.
In the name of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Ghost.
Then form the sign of the cross three times.
Thisspellasrecordedin1820byJohnGeorgeHohman
in his definitive Book of Pow-Wows: The Long Lost Friend,
omits the last line of the charm, but includes the crosses.233/901
Pacify Threatening Dogs Spell
(Pagan-Friendly Version)
Historically,therehavealwaysbeentwomovementswithin
the Pow-Wow community: those who emphasize Christian
orientationandthosewhodonot.Rhymeswereadaptedas
needed and continue toevolve.This pagan-friendly version
calls upon those Greek divinities that exert great influence
over hounds:
Dog, hold your nose to the ground!
Creator made you, me, and hound
In the name of the triple goddess, Selene, Artemis, and
Hecate
Repeatthreetimes.Thecross,asapre-Christiansymbolof
protection, may still be formed. A pentacle, crescent moon,
downward-facingtriangle,orothershapemayalsobesub-
stituted, as desired.
Stop Dogs Barking Spell
Place leaves of hound’s tongue in your shoes, beneath your
feet. Alternatively, carry within a charm bag.234/901
Sweet Nature Dog Collar
Sewapieceofflintandapieceofcoralinsideadog’scollar
to protect against illness and ill temper.Banishing Spells
There’softenconfusionoverthedifferencebetweenban-
ishingspellsandbindingspells,howeverit’scrucialthatyou
understand this difference.
• Binding spells attach something or, more fre-
quently,someonetoyouwithgreatintensity,of-
ten permanently
• Banishingspellsremovesomethingor,morefre-
quently, someone from your presence, often
permanently
It’sanimportantdistinction.Althoughmagicspellsaretypic-
allyusedtomanifestsomethingorsomeone,quiteoftenthe
reverse is needed. Something or someone needs to be sent
packing quickly.
Banishingspellsaretraditionallytimedtocoincidewith
thewaningmoon,inthehopesthat,justasthemoondimin-
ishes, so will the unwanted presence.
Also falling under the category of banishing spells are
Avoidance Spells—those spells required when you wish to
avoid contact, for instance with creditors or debt collectors.
Banishingspellsareusedtopreventanyunwelcomereturns,
too.However,youmaywishtoconsiderProtectionSpellsto
reinforce, or in some circumstances replace, banishing spells.236/901
Banishing People and
Other Pests
Balloon Banishing
1. Writethetargetofyourspell’snameontoaslipof
paper.
2. Insert this paper into a balloon, either before or
after blowing it up, whichever you find simpler.
3. Take the balloon to an appropriate place and re-
lease it.
Banish Evil Spell
Sometimesit’snotclearwhatorwhoneedstobebanished.
There’s just a prevailing sense of evil that needs to be ex-
pelled.ThisspellismosteffectiveduringtheDarkMoon.An
ironhammerisrequired,asisaflatrock,andeitheracoffin
nail or an old rusty nail.
1. Hammerthenailagainsttherock.Thegoalisnot
to pierce the rock but merely to score it three
timesacrosstheface.Visualizewhatyouaredis-
pelling while you hammer.
2. Bury the stone far away.
3. Carry the nail in a red mojo bag, together with
some crossroads’ and/or graveyard dirt.237/901
Banish Negative Energy
Occasionally what requires banishing is more ambiguous
thanunwantedguests,meanspirits,orvermin:burnchicory
to banish negative emotions from the premises as well as
negative energy, regardless of the source.
Banishing Powders
Theartoftheenchantedpowderreachesitsfinestpointwith
banishingspells.VariousBanishingPowdersexist,ofvarying
intensity. Some are created from common kitchen ingredi-
ents, while others are mixed from more exotic components.
Experimentandseewhichformulaworksmostpowerfullyfor
you.
Rememberthatpowdersareintendedasasubtleformof
magic.There’snoneedtoleavealargesuspiciouspile;adis-
creet sprinkling is typically sufficient.
AnyoftheBanishingPowdersbelowmaybeusedtocre-
ate a Banishing Oil.
Banishing Oil
1. GrindtheingredientstogethertocreateaBanish-
ing Powder (see below).
2. Cover this powder with castor oil, shaking vigor-
ously to distribute.
3. Ifcastoroilistoothicktoflowadequately,dilute
with jojoba oil.238/901
Banishing Powder (1) Basic
Banishing Powder
Black pepper
Cayenne powder
Cinnamon
Sea salt
Sulfur
Banishing Powder (2) Begone!
Banishing Powder
Chopped bay laurel leaves
Black pepper
Cayenne pepper
Powdered hydrangea blossoms
Sea salt
Both formulas above are similar in intensity and may be
used in the same manner:
• Sprinkle the Banishing Powder on clothes, espe-
ciallyshoes,belongingtoanyoneyou’dliketosee
gone
• Sprinkle the powder on the ground, so that the
target of your spell is forced to step on or over it
• BanishingPowderwillenhancethepowerofany
otherbanishingspell.Sprinkleasanaccompani-
ment, particularly around and over candles239/901
TheaboveBanishingPowdersaremadefromwhataremore
orlesshouseholdingredients,withmaybealittleextrainvest-
ment. Although not everyone keeps sulfur powder or
powderedhydrangeaasakitchenstaple,theyarebotheasy,
inexpensive items to purchase from an herbalist or spiritual
supply store.
ThefollowingBanishingPowderhasamorecomplexset
of ingredients: obtaining them may take greater effort than
thepreviousformulas.Itis,however,consideredastronger,
moredefiant,andperhapsultimatelyamoremalevolentban-
ishing agent.
Ifyouenjoyworkingwithfigurecandles,blackdevilcandles
are considered powerful banishing agents:
Black Devil Banishing Spell
1. Hold a black devil candle in both your hands to
charge it with your desire.
2. Dress the candle with Banishing Oil and burn.
Botanical Banishing Spells
Thefollowingbotanicalspossessabanishingeffect.Incorpor-
ate one or (ideally) a combination of them into banishing
spells:angelica,asafetida,basil,baylaurel,citronella,cloves,
cumin, devil’s bit, dragon’s blood, elder, fleabane, fumitory,
garlic,heliotrope,horehound,juniper,lovage,mistletoe,mul-
lein,mugwort,oleander,pepper(bothblackandhotchili/cay-
enne), yew.240/901
• Use in any combination to formulate your own
banishing spells
• Livingplantsgrowninquantityaroundthehome
discourage uninvited visitors
• Several of the above plants, like oleander and
yew, are poisonous. As a general rule of thumb,
thoseplantswithtoxicpropertiesareusedinban-
ishing spells, to varying degrees. However, this
maynotbeappropriateforthosewithchildrenor
animals present
• PoisonGardensarediscussedindepthinthePro-
tectionSpellssection;however,ifit’ssafeandap-
propriateforyou,aPoisonGardenmayprovide
the privacy-minded with a protective banishing
shield
Change or Else!
This banishing spell targets a trouble-maker. Unlike most
banishing spells, which simply encourage the person to de-
part, this one offers another option. The target of the spell
can either reform or else leave peacefully.
1. Add essential oils of patchouli and vetiver to a
blend of olive and castor oils.
2. Rub this on the door-knobs of your target’s home.241/901
Coffee Grounds Banishing Spell
Themosteffectivewaytoperformthefollowingspellisvia
subterfuge.Invitethetargetofyourspellovertoyourhome
and serve fresh-brewed coffee. For maximum effectiveness,
offer to read their coffee-grounds, turning over their cup.
Then when they’ve left, immediately gather your spell
materials.
1. Gatherthedirtfromyourtarget’sfootprintsor,al-
ternatively, gather the dirt from under a chair in
which they were the last person to sit.
2. Combine this dirt with cayenne pepper, ground
sassafras,andusedcoffeegrounds.(Themostpo-
tentcoffeegroundsarethosefromthetarget’sown
cup.)
3. Sprinkle this on the target’s front doorstep.
Foot Track Banishing
Traditionalmethodsofspelldisposalarenotalwayspossible
anylonger,foravarietyofreasons,rangingfromecologicalto
legalrestrictions.Insomecases,substitutionsareeasilymade
whichwillnotadverselyaffectthedesiredoutcome,butthisis
notalwaysthecase.Thefollowingisaverysimplebanishing
spell, common to various parts of the world such as North
Africa,theAmericanSouth,andRomany-influencedEurope.
Thedisposaloftheingredientseffectivelyisthespell:sending
yourtarget’sfootprintsdownstreamcausesthebanishment.If
it’s not possible to perform this spell exactly, then try another.242/901
1. Follow the target of your spell discreetly, ob-
serving their footprints.
2. Whenyouseeaclear,distinctleftprint,digitup
in its entirety.
3. Takeithomeinabag,thentransferthedirttoa
glassjarorbottle,beingcarefulnottoloseorspill
any of it.
4. Sealthebottleverytightlyshut,addingawaxseal,
if you like.
5. Take this to running water flowing away from you.
6. Turning your back on the water, throw the con-
taineroveryourleftshoulderwithoutlooking,tak-
ing care not to hit anything you shouldn’t.
7. Walk away without looking back once.
Four Thieves Banishing
Spells
Anexcellentexampleofhowmagictravelsandevolves,Four
ThievesVinegararrivedinNewOrleans,broughtbyeither
French or Italian immigrants, who valued it for its illness-
banishing properties. In New Orleans, another use was dis-
covered: Four Thieves Vinegar is an excellent banishing
agentforunwantedpeople.FromNewOrleansVoodoo,this
use of Four Thieves entered the modern Wiccan and Pagan
magickal community, many ofwhomare unfamiliar withits
original use as a healing agent.243/901
Four Thieves Banishing Spell
To avoid debt collectors or others in hot pursuit of you:
1. Place their business card inside a shot glass.
2. Fill the glass withFour Thieves Vinegar.
3. Leavetheglassstandinginadiscreetplaceaslong
as necessary.
If a business card does not exist or you cannot obtain one,
make one up: write the target’s name on a business card-
sized piece of paper and place this in the shot glass.
Four Thieves Nine Night Banishing
Spell
An extra-strength banishing spell:
1. Each night for nine consecutive nights (ideally
timedwiththewaningmoonbutcastthespellas
necessary)writethetargetofyourspell’snameon
brown paper, together with a brief, explicit mes-
sage, something like“Go home!”
2. Sprinkle one of the banishing powders over the
paper.
3. Addoneofthetarget’shairs,anailclipping,ora
thread from their clothing.
4. Burn everything; place the ashes in a bottle of
Four Thieves Vinegar.
5. Followingtheninthnight,wrapthebottletightly
in black fabric, securing it with cord.244/901
6. Makenineknotsinthecordreiteratingyourdesire
for banishment with each one.
7. Throwthisbottleintorunningwateroracemetery
and return home via a circuitous route.
Four Thieves Quick Banishing Spell
This is a quick-fix version of the Four Thieves Nine Night
spell above.
1. Addsomebanishingpowder(anyoneyoulike)to
a bottle ofFour Thieves Vinegar.
2. Writethetargetofyourspell’snameonbrownpa-
per and put it inside the bottle, too.
3. Shakethebottle,thenleaveitupsidedowninthe
corner of your closet or behind your bed overnight.
4. Wrap it in black fabric, securing with cord in
whichyoutienineknots,reiteratingyourwishfor
banishing with each one.
5. Throw the bottle in a garbage can at a distance
from your home and return via a circuitous route.
Garlic Banishing Spell
Hangabraidoftwelvegarlicheadsoverthedoortobanish
jealous people and, by extension, the Evil Eye.245/901
Get Lost and Far Away!
Lost and Away Powderhasvarioususes,inadditionto
banishment.It’salsousedtoestablishpersonalandpsychic
boundaries, as well as to prevent someone else from en-
croaching on these boundaries.
1. Write your target’s name thirteen times on a
square of paper.
2. SprinkleLost and Away Powderon this paper.
3. Fold the paper up, always folding away from you.
4. Seal it with sealing wax, preferably red.
5. Bury this paper but mark the spot.
6. Leave it buried for thirteen days, watering daily
withWar Water.
7. On the fourteenth day, dig it up and burn it.
Hit the Road and Don’t Come Back
Spell
1. Fill your pockets with salt in anticipation of the
person’s departure.
2. Accompanythepersonasheorshedeparts,walk-
ingjustastepbehindtotheedgeofyourproperty,
discreetly sprinkling salt in their wake.
3. Whenthepersonhasgoneandcannolongersee
you,takeabroomandsweepthesaltaway,always
sweeping away from your home or the area you
wish protected from their presence.246/901
4. Simultaneously murmur your target’s name, al-
ternatelyprayingandpetitioningthathedoesnot
returnandcommandingandcompellinghimnev-
er to return.
Variationsonthisspellsuggestaddingblackand/orcayenne
pepper to the salt.
Another mode of administering Banishing Powder is via a gift.
Out of My House Banishing Spell
Thefollowingspellisexcellentforriddingyourhomeofan
unwanted guest, or perhaps even a family member who
needstodepart.Thespellpresumesthatyouhaveaccessto
thetarget’sclothingandpersonalitems.Surelyyou’redoing
theirlaundry?Themorepersonaltheitemsare,themoreef-
fective the spell.
1. Construct a small doll using personal items be-
longing to your spell’s target.
2. Write the target’s name on a small slip of paper.
Cross over the name by writing an appropriate
message, something like “Out of my house now!”
3. Pin this to the doll like a name-tag.
4. Soak the doll’s feet in one of the Banishing Oils.
(Exodus Oil is particularly appropriate; however,
use whichever resonates strongest for you.)
5. Wrap the doll in dark fabric, folding away from
you.Keepitinasafeplace,anointingthefeetdaily
andsecretlytellingthedollexactlywhatyou’dlike
to tell the target of your spell.247/901
6. Assoonasthebanishmenthasbeeneffected,des-
troyordisposeofthedoll.Donotkeepitinyour
home.
Purple Candle Banishing Spell
Burningapurplecandleinthefollowingspellindicatesyour
poweroverthetargetofyourspell.However,ablackdevil
candle may be substituted if you prefer.
1. Writethename(s)ofthosewhomyouwishtoban-
ish on a square of brown paper.
2. Cover the name(s) with your own, effectively
crossing the first name out.
3. Chant:
I cover you, I cross you
I command you, I compel you
[Name], child of [Name]. Get out of my house
now!
4. Dress a purple candle with Banishing Oil.
5. Place the paper on a dish, beneath the purple
candle.
6. Burn the candle.
Adapt the chant to your particular situation.
Simple Cotton Ball Banishing Spell
SoakacottonballinBanishingOil.Thenslipitintoyourtar-
get’s pocket.248/901
These Feet Were Meant For Moving
Banishing Spell
DrizzleBanishingOiloveryourtarget’sshoes.Alternatively,
massagingtheoilintotheirfeet,ifyoucansomehowman-
age this, can also produce desired effects.
Unwanted Guests Banishing Spell
Sprinkle tormentil under the bed to encourage unwanted
guests to move on.
Banishing Bad Habits
Althoughthesespellsmaybeusedtotargetanytypeofbeha-
vior, the term “bad habits” is often understood to refer eu-
phemisticallytodangerousand/orundesirableaddictions.It
may be necessary to combine several spells for maximum
effect.
Amethyst Anti-Intoxication
Spell
Legends surrounding the beautiful purple gemstone,
amethyst,suggestthatitmaybeusedtopreventintoxication.249/901
This is not exactly true: if you’re really determined to get
drunk,thereisn’tacrystalintheworldthatwillstopyou,nor
willdrinkingfromacupcutfromamethyst,theoriginalspell
instructions,providelong-termobstruction.Whatamethysts
candoforyouisbolsterattemptsnottodrink,whetherthis
meansdrinkingatallormerelytoexcess.Amethystsreinforce
your personal determination and provide a measure of
protection.
TheamethystissacredtoDionysus,SpiritofEcstasyand
Intoxication. It is his power that one witnesses shining
through the gemstone. Even gods of intoxication can some-
times be bad drunks, though, as the mythical history of the
amethystpointsout.Onceuponatime,onamorningafter,a
long, long, time ago, Dionysus, suffering from a hang-over
and headache, wished to avoid all company. Bothered by
everysound,heannouncedthathewouldterminatethevery
nextpersontocrosshispath.Whoshouldbepassingthrough
the woods at that moment but the lovely young nymph
Amethyst, on her way with offerings to present at Artemis’
shrine? But before Dionysus could carry out his threat,
ArtemissteppedinandsavedAmethystbytransformingher
into a luminous clear crystal. Abashed and ashamed by his
badtemper,Dionysusapproachedwithaglassofwine.Pour-
ingitoverthenowcrystallizednymph,Amethystturnedher
characteristicpurplecolor.Dionysussworethatwheneverhe
sawthisgemstoneinthefuture,hewouldbecomeanallyin
preventing the ill-effects associated with alcohol.
• Amethyst’santi-intoxicationpowersarestrongest
if one drinks out of an amethyst cup. An
amethyst-colored cup may be sufficient250/901
• Wear an amethyst as a ring or over the throat
chakra. Remember to charge the gemstone and
cleanse it periodically
• Amethysts also have a cleansing effect: meta-
physically they will help remove and assimilate
toxins, including alcohol
Bury Bad Habits Spell
Among the most famous hexing spells are those involving
miniature-sizedpersonalizedcoffinsleftonthespelltarget’s
doorsteps.Thiscoffinspellistraditionallyasmuchanactof
sheerintimidationasitisamagicalspell,howeveritcanbe
puttolessmalevolentuses.Usethelittlecoffinspellbelowto
lay issues to rest and, in particular, to bury addictions.
1. Create a small coffin. You will need a little box.
You can find one or make one, however the im-
ageryshouldbeveryclear:thereshouldbenoam-
biguityregardingthetypeofbox.Inspiration,ora
boxitself,maybetakenfromMexicanDayofthe
Dead (Dia de los Muertos)handicrafts.
2. Paint the outside of the box black. Decorate with
purple glitter glue if desired.
3. Traditionallytheboxcontainsasmalldoll,which
mayormaynotbepersonalizedsothattheiden-
tityofthetargetisclear.Considerhowtopersoni-
fy your addiction.
4. Accompanyandreinforcethisspellwithintensive
candle burning.
5. The doll may be pierced with pins. Add candle
stubs,leftoverspellwax,graveyarddirt,asafetida,251/901
andbanishingpowder,especiallyLostandAway
Powder.
6. Dress everything with Banishing Oil.
Traditionallythecoffinisleftonyourtarget’sdoorstep.Con-
siderappropriateplacestoleaveit,orburythelittlecoffin
within a cemetery.
You may find just making the box therapeutic in itself.
In which case, reserve the box for ritual use or destroy it.
Crystal Bad Habit Breaking Spell
Usedouble-terminatedcrystalstohelpbreakoldhabitsand
destructivepatterns,andtohealaddictions.Otherbeneficial
stones include amethyst and kunzite, which interestingly
contains lithium, used medicinally to treat depression and
bi-polar syndromes.
• Carry the gemstones in a conjure bag
• Lay the stones on or around the body
• Use the stones as a focal point for visualization
and meditation spells
Eucalyptus Banish Bad Habits Spell
The eucalyptus tree is believed to possess potent banishing
properties.Ifyouhaveaeucalyptustree,it’ssimpletomake
a decoction: place leaves, twigs, and loose bark into a pot
andcoverwithwater.Bringittoaboil,thenlowertheheat
andsimmergentlyforanhourormore.Otherwise,youcan
create an infusion from dried eucalyptus, available from252/901
herbalsupplystores.Pourboilingwateroverthebotanicals
and let them steep until the water cools.
Eitherway,strainoutthebotanicalsandaddtheinfu-
siontoyourbathwater,todestroyeviltiesthatbind,wheth-
er bad addictions, bad habits, or bad company.
Sometimestheconditionthatrequiresbanishingisn’tyours.
Perhaps someone else’s drinking is causing your life to be
miserable. Spells have evolved to encourage others to stop
drinking.
Get Someone Else to Quit Spell
ThisPow-Wowtechniqueisusedforcuringexcessivealcohol
intakebyanother,whetherheorshewishestobecuredor
not.
1. Scrapethedirtoutfromunderthetarget’sfinger-
nails.(Probablybestaccomplishedwhiletheyare
inastupor,unlessyouareinthegeneralhabitof
providing a manicure.)
2. Secretlyaddthesescrapingstotheirfavoritealco-
holic beverage.
3. When appropriate, serve them some. The person
willhappilydrinkthisbeverage.Allegedlythead-
dition should remove future inclination to imbibe.
Themoderngrapefruitisarelativelynewspecies,havingap-
parentlyevolvedincolonialBarbados.Interestinglythisfruit
whichevolvedinaplaceandtimeplaguedbyslaveryisamong
the most potent botanicals for breaking personal shackles.253/901
Grapefruit Quit Smoking Spell
A magical plan to stop smoking:
1. Everytimeyoucraveacigarette,haveagrapefruit
instead.
2. Here’s the catch: you must cut and eat the
grapefruit completely by hand. You cannot use a
knife to cut it or use a spoon to eat it.
3. Peel the grapefruit by hand, and then eat it seg-
ment by segment.
Magnolia Bark Spell
Drinking magnolia bark tea supposedly helps one quit
smoking.
Onion Blossom Spell
Burnonionblossomswhilemakingaffirmationstohelpban-
ish bad habits. This provides a magical cleansing effect too.254/901
Banishing Problems
and Situations
Although specific spells exist for many different situations,
sometimes a problem doesn’t fall neatly into any one cat-
egory. Perhaps no solution exists: the only possible positive
outcome is for the entire situation to be eliminated or
banished.
Rotten Apple Banishing Spell
1. Cutanappleinhalfhorizontally,sothatthestarin
the center is exposed.
2. Rub one half of the apple with a mint leaf while
visualizing what needs to be banished.
3. Put the two halves of the apple back together
again.
4. Stickaskewerthroughthepieces,sothattheywill
remain joined.
5. Tiethepiecessecurelytogetherwithblacksilkor
satin ribbon.
6. Burytheapple.Yourproblemshoulddissipateas
the apple rots.
Youmayalsonameyourproblembywritingitonaslipof
paper. Dip this paper into essential oil of mint and place
between the apple halves, before rejoining them. However,
bynamingtheproblemonpaper,youtaketheriskoffurther255/901
manifestation.Castwhicheverversionofthespellresonates
for you.
Banish Spirits
Sometimes you need to make the spirits leave. Despite the
emphasisonSummoningSpellsplacedintheclassicalmedi-
evalgrimoires,thebiggerproblemisoftenhowtoforcethese
spirits to leave once you’ve achieved your own purposes. A
goodreasonforneverdabblinginmalevolentmagicisthatit
istypicallyeasiertosummonthantobanish.ExuMarabo,for
instance, a powerful yet dangerous spirit, warns that once
summoned, he can never be forced to leave.
Inmanycases,malevolentmagicattractstheattentionof
equally malevolent spirits. Feeling at home, they move right
in,regardless ofyourdesires. Oncepresent, boredand rest-
less, they cause destruction and grief.
In general, banishing spirits is work for a shaman. The
first choice in all situations would be to hire an effective,
knowledgeableprofessional.Thatsaid,hiringashamanisn’t
an option for many people in most circumstances. When all
actionmustbetakeninyourownhands,thefollowingspells
are reputed to be extremely potent.
Bamboo Banishing Spell
House spirits are supposed to be helpful; every once in a
while a malevolent one turns up. This Korean spell helps
banish unwanted house spirits.256/901
Burn bamboo sticks. Allegedly the sound of bamboo’s
popping knots scares house demons away.
Banishing Incense
The following incense formula allegedly drives away even
the most powerful of evil spirits. The ingredients include:
Asafetida
Bay laurel leaves
Galbanum
Olive leaves
Rue
Saint John’s Wort
Salt
Sulfur
1. Crumble all the ingredients.
2. Blendthemtogether,grind,powder,andburnon
lit charcoal.
Banishment Bouquet
A bouquet of garlic blossoms and angelica flowers, tied up
with red and blue ribbons, repels malicious spirits.257/901
Bell, Book, and Candle
Thisphrase,thetitleofapopularplayandfilmaswellasthe
givennameofnumerousmetaphysicalstores,evolvedfrom
traditionalRomanCatholicritesofexorcismandexcommu-
nication.Thismethodofbanishingmalevolentspiritspred-
atesChristianity,however,andmaybeusedasaframework
forexorcistsofanyspiritualorientation.Inordertoeffect-
ivelycastabanishingspell,youmustbefamiliarandcom-
fortable with your tools.
1. Thebellisthesimplestpartofthespell.Bellsin-
vokethecombinedprimalpowersofmaleandfe-
malegenerativeenergy;theringingofametalbell
disturbmostmaliciousspirits.Anironbellwillre-
pel most negative entities.
2. Thebookreferstosacredtexts,theintroductionof
somethingsosacredthatthereisnoroomleftfor
evil to co-exist in the space; hence it’s squeezed
out. The key is to employ whatever fills you with
sacredgrace.Thesemightbesacredtexts,Gregori-
an chants, or gospel music, or may even derive
fromwhatmightbeperceivedasprofanesources:
soul music, for instance.
3. Not just any candle will do; the fragrance of
beeswax allegedly repels evil. Alternatively rub
candles with oils of benzoin and frankincense.258/901
Botanical Spirit Banishing
The following plants allegedly make malevolent spirits feel
unwelcome: juniper, maize corn, mugwort, Saint John’s
Wort, vervain, wormwood, and yarrow. Keep living plants
nearyourhomeoranyareathatneedsprotection,orhang
these dried botanicals near doors and windows as amulets.
Disperse Evil Incense
Burn benzoin, frankincense, and juniper as a triple threat
and triple protection: evil spirits cannot abide any of these
fragrances, let alone the combination.
Exorcism Spells
Sometimes spirits attach themselves to an individual rather
thanmerelyhauntinganarea.Thespiritmayspeakthrough
theindividual,refusingtoleave.Encouragingorforcingthem
to leave is a shamanic technique. However, should you find
yourselfdealingwithacaseofpossessionwithoutanexorcist
intheneighborhood,thefollowingspellsmaybeattempted.
Ingeneral,youwillstillneedaritualassistanttohelpachieve
your magical goals.259/901
Exorcism Spell (1)
1. Use intensive cleansing methods to purify the
area.
2. In addition to whichever methods are employed,
ring bells, cymbals, and sistra loudly.
3. Invoke benevolent protective spirits, like
Archangel Michael, Kwan Yin, and/or Isis.
4. Draw up talismans of protection.
5. Summonthedemons,demandingthattheycome
forward and depart.
6. Observe for signs of departure. Dramatic spirits
will let you know they’ve gone. Otherwise use
divination techniques to determine whether your
methods have been effective or, if not, what fur-
ther action should be taken.
7. If you’re sure they’ve departed, burn the
talismans.
8. Mix a teaspoon of the ashes into cooled boiled
spring water. Have the person drink it.
9. Close the ceremony.
Exorcism Spell (2)
1. Fill a new pot with freshly drawn water.
2. Pour some olive oil over the water.
3. Whisper Psalm 10 over this water nine times.
4. Dipanewtowelintothisliquidtobathetheafflic-
ted person.260/901
Ginger Banishing Spell
It’s traditionally believed that low-level malevolent spirits
canenterthebodythroughfood.Thisisthesourceofmany
fairy tales where evil is swallowed. Certain foods, such as
ginger, guard against this as well as expelling any previ-
ouslyswalloweddemons.Addittofoodtoexpelandprevent
demons.
Poltergeist Banishing: Fumitory/
Earth Smoke
Burn Fumitory (Earth smoke) to banish poltergeists,
demons,andanymannerofmaliciousspirit.(Thiswasthe
solution allegedly favored in the famed ninth-century geo-
metric gardens of Saint Gall.)
Sage Banishing Spirits Spell
Burnsage—especiallywhitesage—toridanareaofevilspir-
its and negative entities.
Sweet Spirit Oil Spell
ThisSweetSpiritOilissafeforusebymostpeopleandsmells
beautiful.Wearingitendowsyouwithapersonalprotective261/901
aura.Evilspiritswillallegedlyleaveyoualone,evenifthey
are lurking nearby.
Blendessentialoilsoffrankincenseandvetiver,together
withhoneysuckleabsoluteandroseattarintoabaseofsweet
almondoil.Addtheoiltobathwaterbeforeretiringforthe
night,ormassageitontothebody,tokeepmaliciousspirits
far away from you.
Sweet Spirit Powder Spell
To repel evil spirits, while simultaneously beckoning bene-
volent, kind, protective ones:
1. Grindthefollowingbotanicalstogethertoproduce
a fine powder: frankincense, honeysuckle blos-
soms, roses, and vetiver roots.
2. Sprinklethepowderontolitcharcoalandburnin-
cessantly, until you’re convinced the danger is
over.
Tree of Life Banishing Spell
Arborvitae:thenamegiventothistreemeans“treeoflife.”
The smoke from its burning leaves allegedly disperses un-
wanted spirits and sends them packing.262/901
Witch Balls
Witchballsareglobesofiridescentcoloredglass.Placethem
around your home and property to disperse malicious
spirits.
Banishing Vermin
No,notbadboyfriends.Trytheregularbanishingspellsatthe
beginningofthissectionforthem.OrlookthroughtheLove
Spellsforsometipsoneffectivelyendingrelationships.These
verminarethelittlecreepycrawlykindsthatseemtopossess
magical resistance toward efforts to remove them.
Banishing Powders
TheHoodoosummoningpowdercalledDrawingPowder
should contain nothing more than powdered confectioner’s
sugar. To demonstrate its powers of summoning, sprinkle
sugar on the floor and watch ants and other bugs miracu-
louslyappear.YetDrawingPowderisintendedtosummon
people.Trythespell’sconverseandseeifthisworksonbugs,
too. The various Banishing Powders are meant to banish
people, just as Drawing Powder summons them: sprinkle
BanishingPowderaroundyourhometoseeifthisworksas
well.263/901
Eucalyptus Banishing Spell
Botanical methods of banishing may work, too. The scent
and presence of eucalyptus allegedly repels cockroaches.
1. Add essential oil of eucalyptus to a bowl of cool
water.
2. Soak a cloth in the water.
3. Leavetheclothwhereveryou’dliketobanishthe
roaches.
Ifthisprovessuccessful,addessentialoilofeucalyptustoa
spray bottle filled with water and spray wherever needed.
Khonsu’s Banishing Spell
TheEgyptianlunardivinityKhonsumaybeinvokedtoban-
ish cockroaches.
1. Hold a scarab in your left hand to charge it with
your desire.
2. Place it in the light of the Full Moon.
3. Warm essential oil of frankincense in an aroma
burner and tell Khonsu what you need.
Magic Chalk Anti-Ant Circles
Stores in New York’s Chinatown sometimes feature Magic
Ant Repelling Chalk. The magic may be very effective, but
the chalk is just plain chalk. Use white chalk to draw264/901
boundarylinesandprotectivecirclesaroundyourhome.Al-
legedly the ants will not cross these boundary lines.
Valerian Rat Banishing
AllegedlyvalerianiswhatthePiedPiperofHamelinusedto
lure the rats away from that besieged town. If reports are
true, he carried the herb in his pocket. You may, however,
wishtotryburningitinaportableincenseburnerorcenser.
Createamagicalpathfortheratstofollow.Rats,likecats,
allegedly enjoy the fragrance and will follow it where it
leads them.Better Business and
Professional Success
Spells
Althoughmanyofthesearemoneyspells,theysolicitmoney
from a specific source. These aren’t spells for conjuring up
moneyfromoutoftheblue;you’dliketheopportunitytoearn
this money. Magic provides financial inspiration, added op-
portunity,andprotectivebufferingfromtheinherentinstabil-
ity of the marketplace.
Better Business is Hoodoo terminology for more than
just increased business, although the desire to stimulate
healthycashflowinspiresalargeselectionofspells.Thiscat-
egory also includes anything specifically affecting business,
money earned through work or business, employment, and
career issues. It is a particularly ancient and universal cat-
egory: no matter where people come from, they understand
the necessity of earning a living, together with its attendant
pitfalls, risks, and dangers.
The concept of the “marketplace” serves as yet another
metaphoric, magical spiritual crossroads, especially if one
considersancienttownmarkets.Roadsconvergedinthemar-
ketplace; it was an area of swirling energy and great oppor-
tunityforsuccess,loss,transformation,andadventure.More
thanmerebuyingandsellingofgoodswenton;diviners,tra-
ditional healers, and entertainers including conjurers and
professionalstory-tellersallpliedtheirwaresinthemarket-
place.Itwaswhereyouwenttohearnews.Beforecopyright
laws,266/901
• Better business spells whose goal is in-
creased profits often rely heavily upon
the creation and correct placement of
special charms
• Powders and oils are used to encourage
out-going money to return “home”
books were “published” by being read aloud in the market
square.InmanytraditionalAfricanphilosophiesthemarket-
place is a crossroads particularly associated with women’s
power and opportunity for success.
Allspice Better Business Spells
Allspice berries allegedly enhance the fortunes of business
ventures. They are also reputed to magically help turn
around regrettable investments.
• Carry them in a charm bag
• Pierce and string the berries. Wear them as a
necklace or more discreet ankle bracelet
• Add allspice berries to a bottle of Bay Rum.
Massage this enhanced Bay Rum into your
hands and body267/901
Almond Tree Better Business Spell
1. Find an almond tree that you can climb.
2. Offer the tree a libation and gift.
3. Murmuryourdesirestothetree;stateyourgoals
and aspirations.
4. Climb the tree.
5. Linger as long or as little as you like; when you
come down, offer the tree another libation.
6. Yoursuccesswillallegedlybeachieved;ifso,plant
another almond tree.
7. Repeat as needed.
Basil Better Business Spells
Basil is the botanical most associated with attracting wealth
and prosperity. Large, fresh, vivid green basil leaves are be-
lieved to resemble cash bills. In addition, basil is strongly
identifiedwithvariousspiritsofwealthandgoodfortune.The
presenceofthebotanicalbeckonsthesespirits,togetherwith
their blessings of prosperity.
Basil belongs to Maitresse Ezili Freda Dahomey, Vodou
spirit of luxury, and features in many of her rituals. Tulsi
basil,alsoknownasholybasil,belongstoLakshmi,thepopu-
lar Hindu goddess of good fortune.268/901
Basil Spell (1) New Orleans Better
Business Formula
MaitresseEziliFredaDahomeyemergedinaregionofWest
AfricaknowneitherasDahomeyorBenin.Originallyawa-
ter snake spirit, she traveled with enslaved devotees to the
Western hemisphere, taking root in Haiti, where she has
achievedgreatprominenceasthepre-eminentfemalespirit
intheVodounpantheon.Duringthejourney,MaitresseEzili
shedhersnakeskintoemergeasthebreathtakinglybeautiful
lwaofwealth,luxury,dreams,andlove.NewOrleansVoo-
doo stands firmly on the shoulders of Haitian Vodou, al-
though the more religious aspects may or may not be em-
phasized.BasilisamajorcomponentofNewOrleans-styled
betterbusinessformulas,althoughtheoriginalconnectionto
Maitresse Ezili may be overlooked.
1. Shred approximately one half cup of fresh basil
leaves.
2. Coverthebasilwithapproximatelyonepint(560
ml) of boiling water. (Play with proportions to
achieve the quantity and intensity you desire.)
3. Let the basil steep in this water for three days.
4. Onthefourthday,strainoutthewater,reserving
the liquid.
Sprinklethisliquidovertheentrancesandthresholdsofyour
business, in corners, behind doors, and near the cash re-
gisters—basicallyinanyspotthatmightbeperceivedasvul-
nerable. It allegedly attracts customers and prevents theft.269/901
Basil Spell (2) New Orleans Quick
Fix Better Business Formula
Therearetwomethodsofcreatingthisquick-fixversion.The
mostpreferredistoaddtwelvedropsofessentialoilofbasil
toonepint(560ml)ofwater.Thisisn’taspotentasregular
NewOrleansBetterBusinessFormulabutit’sfast.Itcanbe
whipped up in seconds. An alternative method is to pour
boilingwateroveronetablespoonofdriedbasil.Allowitto
steep until it cools, then strain and use.
Thedriedherblacksthepotencyofeitherthefreshherb
orthehighlyconcentratedessentialoil.However,neitherthe
dried herb nor the essential oil possesses fresh basil’s dis-
tinctive fragrance. Both Quick Fix solutions lack the visual
componentoftheoriginalspell,too:thesoakingbasilleaves
lookalotlikecash.Compensatebyaddingextrafocusand
visualization to the spell.
Basilhydrosolmayalsobesubstituted.Useitbyitselfor
add it to rinse water. Again, because so little effort is re-
quired to use this, compensate by added focus and
visualization.
Basil Spell (3)
Freshbasilsmellssoinvitingyoumaynotwishtoreserveit
for the floor.
1. Chop fresh basil into fine threads.270/901
2. Warmhoneygentlyoverthestove.(Adoubleboil-
er or bain-marie is recommended, as honey
scorches easily.)
3. Add the basil to the honey and simmer.
4. Removethebasil-enhancedhoneyfromthesource
of heat and murmur over it something like this:
FliesflockstohoneyCustomersflocktomeBears
flocktohoneyBusinessflockstomeAntsflockto
honey Contracts flock to me
(Adapt to your specific situation.)
5. Run a warm bath for yourself.
6. Rubthehoneyoveryourbody,andthenenterthe
bath.
7. Soakinthewaterforawhile.Whenyouemerge,
before you drain the water, reserve some of the
used bathwater.
8. Toss this on the grounds of your business.
Basil Spell (4) Personal Business
Magnet Spell
Sometimes you are your business. Traditionally prostitutes
havebathedininfusionsoffreshbasiltolurecustomersto-
wardthem,acustombelievedtooriginateinSpain,although
it has since traveled around the world. Sex workers aren’t
the only ones whose prosperity is dependent upon selling
themselves.Thisspellisbeneficialforanyonewhosebusiness
depends upon his or her own personal magnetism.271/901
1. Add strong infusions of fresh basil to your bath,
together with fresh basil leaves and some basil
hydrosol.
2. Forextraenhancement,afterbathingandair-dry-
ing,dustthebodylightlywitheitherLodestone
Body Powder or Drawing Powder Personal
Dusting Powder.
Better Business: Charm Bag
1. SelectoneormoreoftheMoneyDrawingorLuck
oils.
2. Usetheoil(s)toanointfivecowrieshells,aHigh
John the Conqueror root, and a matched pair of
lodestones.
3. Place these into a red flannel drawstring bag.
Carryitwithyouorplaceitstrategicallywithinthe
business.
4. Anointwithmoreoilperiodicallytoreinforcethe
mojo’s power.
Better Business: Commanding
Spell
Command and compel business to improve. This spell en-
courages you to radiate confidence, and others to wish to
pleaseyou.RubadropofEssenceofBendOveroranoth-
erCommandingOilbetweenthepalmsofyourhandsjust
before conferences or when meeting colleagues, bosses,272/901
employees,orclients.Shakethetarget’shandorfindanex-
cuse to touch their bare hand.
Better Business: Drawing Incense
Blenddriedbasil,benzoin,andgroundcinnamonandburn
as a business-drawing incense.
Better Business Floorwashes
Floorwashesareatraditional—anddiscreet—methodofcast-
ingspells.Thebotanical infusions areusedtoradiate magic
power, drawing or repelling your desire as the case may be.
Floorwashesareusedtoscrubfrontstepstoprovidespiritual
protection and attract free-spending customers. Within a
building,theterm“floorwash”issomewhatdeceptive;ingen-
eral,thisismoreofa“floorfinalrinse.”Itisassumedthatthe
flooriscleanpriortoapplyingthespellfloorwash:thefloor-
washisn’trinsedoff,butshouldbeallowedtodryandradiate
itsfragranceandpower.Thephysicallaborinvolvedinapply-
ingthefloorwashalsoenhancesthecastingofthespell:your
effort transmits your intentions and desires.
Applying Better Business
Floorwashes
• Scrub the walkway and the doorway of your
business, beginning at the street and moving273/901
toward your front door, just the way customers
should
• Scrub the front steps
• Cleansetheinteriorfloors,beginningatthefront
doorandcornersandworkingtowardsthecenter
of each room
Floorwashes may be created with any of the following or a
combination:
• Boiled cooled salted water
• Pure spring water (bottled water)
• Strained, collected rainwater
• Plain tap water
Better Business Floorwash (1)
1. Combinegroundcinnamon,brownsugar,andred
brick dust.
2. Addthistoabucketofwater,togetherwithsome
white vinegar.
Better Business Floorwash (2)
1. Combine Florida Water, Indigo Water, Van
Van Oil, and ground cinnamon.
2. Add toabucket filled with salted water, together
with white vinegar.274/901
Better Business Floorwash (3)
Addessentialoilofcitronellatoabucketofwaterandwhite
vinegaranduseasafloorwash.Thisallegedlydrivesaway
negativespiritualentitieswhiledrawingincustomerstofill
the void.
Better Business: Nutmeg Spell
1. Drill a hole through a nutmeg and string it onto
green thread.
2. AddonepiercedGrainofParadise,aJezebelroot
and a High John the Conqueror. (It may also be
necessarytodrillaholethroughtheHighJohn,a
particularly hard root.)
3. Tiethethreadtogetherandhangoverthefronten-
trance to the business.
Busy as an Ant Better Business Spell
ThisisamodernadaptationofaTalmudic-eraspell.Jewish
spells,likeancientEgyptianspellsandmodernChinesema-
gic,oftenrelyheavilyonthepowerofthewrittenword.The
original spell might have included sacred words of power,
acronyms,notarikon,andspeciallychosenbiblicalphrases.
Incorporatetheseasyouwill.Thereis,however,nosubsti-
tute for anthill dust.
1. Collect dust from an anthill.275/901
2. On a piece of parchment paper, write your busi-
nessgoalsinthepresenttense.Forinstance:“Isell
one million units every week.” Use an image or
photograph in addition to words, if you wish.
3. Foldupthepaperintoaverytightlittlesquare,al-
ways folding toward you.
4. Place the paper, the dust, and a lodestone into a
small charm bag.
5. Hang this discreetly in your place of business.
Drawing Powder
Spiritualsupplystoressometimessellreallycutelittlebottles
filled with some kind of powdery substance and labeled
Drawing Powder. It’s better business for them if you pur-
chase a few vials, however, it may be better business for you to
take a trip to the grocery store instead. Although that name
maybeusedtolabelacomplex,sophisticatedMoneyDrawing
Powderfullofrareingredients,technicallyplainoldDrawing
Powderispowderedconfectioner’ssugar.Notsureifitworks?
Sprinkle some on the floor in a warm climate and watch
armies of ants miraculously appear, magically beckoned to
draw close to the powder.
To attract customers and financial success:
• Sprinkle a path of Drawing Powder from the
street to the front door of your business
• SprinkleDrawingPowderintoyourcashregister
to beckon fresh cash to draw near
• Sprinkle Drawing Powder into and over invita-
tions to your place of business as a magical
inducement276/901
Drawing Powder Personal Dusting
Powder
DrawingPowdermaybeusedtodrawbusinesstowardyou
yourself, too.
1. Blend powdered confectioner’s sugar into
cornstarch.
2. Lightlydustthisonyourbodywithapowderpuff
tomagically attract personal attention—and open
pockets.
For added enhancement, sprinkle the blended powder with
essential oil of basil before applying to the body.
Financial Crisis Better Business
Spell
This increased power business bath is considered an emer-
gencyspell.Itallegedlyprovidestemporaryreliefintimesof
crisis.Saveitforuseduringtrulyhardtimesandcrises.Itis
mostpowerfulwhencoordinatedwiththeNewMoon.Donot
betemptedtoperformthisspellateveryNewMoonbyrote:
it loses its effectiveness when used too frequently.
1. Makeastronginfusionfromthefollowingmateri-
als by pouring boiling spring water over them:
Dried basil or shredded fresh basil Dried parsley
or fresh parsley Coriander seeds and/or fresh277/901
coriander leaves Cinnamon Brown sugar Grated
fresh orange zest Fresh orange leaves (optional)
2. Allow the liquid to cool.
3. Fill a bathtub half full.
4. Strainoutthebotanicalmaterialsandbringtheli-
quid to the bath.
5. Standnakedinthebathtubandtosstheinfusion
over yourself.
6. Sit or recline in the water, soaking for seven
minutes.Prayandpetitionforhelpandprosperity
for the entire period. Visualize your prayers
fulfilled.
7. After seven minutes, drain the water and allow
yourself to air-dry.
First Dollar Spells
Thefirstdollarearnedbyanewbusinessventureisperceived
as especially charged with magic power.
First Dollar Ashes Spell
1. Reserve the first dollar earned in a new business.
2. Grind and pulverize it.
3. Blend with frankincense and gold copal.
4. Burn atop a lit charcoal.
5. Reserve the ashes: carry them in a conjure bag.278/901
First Dollar Candle Spell
1. Reserve the first dollar earned in a new business.
2. Sprinkle it with magnetic sand, sugar, and salt.
3. Placeagreencandleontopofthedollarandburn
it.
4. Bury most of the remnants on the property; re-
serve a few pieces in a conjure bag and hang it
near the entrance.
First Dollar Ginseng Spell
1. Reserve the first dollar earned in a new business.
2. Wrapitaroundaginsengrootwithgreenandred
thread.
3. Hold it in your hands and charge it with your
hopes and desires.
4. Placeitinaconjurebagandkeepitinorbeneath
the cash register to generate further income.
Garlic Better Business Spell
Garlic provides a combination of increased business with
space protection.
1. Makeorpurchaseawreathformedfromheadsof
garlic.
2. Fill tiny plastic packets or little red flannel
poucheswithsalt.Fillotherswithyellowmustard279/901
seed. (Staple plastic packets shut; sew flannel
pouches securely together.)
3. Attach these to the wreath. Decorate with other
lucky charms as desired: small horseshoes, crys-
tals, lucky roots, or tiny image cards. Should you
have a dried snakeskin, it’s considered especially
fortuitous.
4. Hang over the entrance to your business.
Has No Hanna Better Business
Spell
Make Has No Hanna incense from dried jasmine and
gardenia flowers, peppermint leaves, and tangerine zest.
Burn on lit charcoal and pass business, corporate, or legal
documents through the smoke for success.
Magic Coin Better Business
Spells
An entire school of Chinese magic is devoted to the use of
coins.(Theuseofcurrencyasspellcomponentsderivesfrom
many traditions, however the Chinese school is most com-
pleteandcohesiveandalsoremainsextremelyvital.)Detailed
informationmaybefoundamongtheMoneySpells.Inshort,
coins are used to draw good fortune, protection, and in-
creased prosperity toward you or toward an area. Although
any metal coin may be used, traditional Chinese coins are
best. Beyond the complex metaphysical reasoning, they are280/901
simplertousethanmostcoins:thesquareholecutintothe
center of each coin lends itself to easy stringing, wrapping,
andhanging.Stringthecoinstogetheryourselfforaddedma-
gicalinputasthistypeofspellalsoreliesheavilyonknotma-
gicandbeautiful,intricatemagicalknotsareincorporatedin-
to each spell charm. However, coins may also be purchased
alreadystrungandknotted(andifyoupurchasefromamas-
ter,blessed)inavarietyofnumericalcombinationsfromfeng
shui suppliers and traditional Chinatown vendors.
Magic Coin Better Business Spell
(1)
1. String three coins together or purchase them
already linked.
2. Placethesestrung-togethercoinsontopofayel-
low or golden cloth.
3. Sprinkle magnetic sand over the coins.
4. Anoint with essential oil of bergamot.
5. Roll and fold the cloth toward you, forming a
packet.
6. Tie securely with a red silk ribbon.
7. Placethispacketinsideornearyourcashregister
for increased business and wealth.281/901
Magic Coin Better Business Spell
(2)
Two Chinese coins strung together with red thread repres-
entsZhaoGongMing,LordofWealth—someoneeveryestab-
lishmentwouldliketowelcomeasanhonored,long-staying
guest. Hang this charm above a shop window to attract
wealth and good fortune to the business.
Shouldtheactualcoinsbeunavailable,animagedepict-
ing this amulet possesses similar powers. Post this instead.
Magic Coin Better Business Spell
(3)
Placetwocoinsstrungtogetherwithredthreadunderneath
the telephone to generate business.
Magic Water Spells
Magic Water Spell (1) Angel Water
SprinkleAngelWater(orsubstituteaninfusionofmyrtle)
around your business premises to encourage cashflow.282/901
Magic Water Spell (2) Glory Water
1. Place frankincense tears (small pieces of frankin-
cense) inside a bottle.
2. Cover them with orange blossom water or
hydrosol.
3. Add a few drops of essential oil of bergamot.
4. AspergeGloryWaterthroughthepremisestoin-
crease business, attract blessings and customers,
and overcome challenges.
Malachite Merchant Spells
Malachiteisthemerchant’sstone.It’sgreen,likemoney.It’s
a stone associated with the astrological sign Libra, the
scales. Use malachite to tip the scales in your favor.
• Place it strategically in your cash register
• Hang it in the corners of your business
• Wear it as jewelry while at work
• Carry it in a charm bag
Malachite gem essence may also be beneficial:
• Add it to your bath
• Massage it into the soles of your
• feet before bedtime
• Add it to floorwash
• Addittoaspraybottlefilledwithspringwateror
magical formula water and spray into the
corners of your business and over its threshold283/901
Commercial houses of prostitution descended from and
emerged alongside ancient temples dedicated to spirits of
love,life,andfertility.Withstrongtiestospirituality,magic,
and financial need, bordellos have traditionally developed
their own better business tricks.
Maneki Neko’s Magic Spell
Although it’s doubtful there will ever be definitive surveys,
ManekiNeko,theJapanesebeckoningcat,appearscurrently
tobethesinglemostpopularamuletonEarth.Thisdistinct-
ivefelineimageemergedrelativelyrecentlyinmagicalhis-
tory:ManekiNekowasunknownuntiltheendofthenine-
teenthcentury.Accordingtoonelegend,ManekiNeko’sca-
reerbeganinthewindowofitsnamesake,astrugglingcat
house. After Maneki Neko arrived, business improved
drasticallyandManekiNeko’sreputationwasset.Shenow
appearsinthewindowsofeventhemostrespectablestores
and businesses all over the world. A Maneki Neko with an
upturned left hand beckons increased business. (The right
hand signals the desire for cash.) Although she’s very cute
andyoumaywishtolookatherface,ManekiNekoworksby
beckoningotherstocometoyou:placehersothatshedraws
business to you.
• Place Maneki Neko in the window, facing outside
• Place Maneki Neko so that she faces the front
door
• AlthoughaManekiNekoinanycolorwillgener-
ate income, gold Maneki Neko’s allegedly serve
most powerfully for this purpose284/901
New Orleans Fast Luck Oils
Sometimes you can afford long-term business plans and
sometimesyouneedbetterbusinessNOW!NewOrleans-style
“fastluck”oilsprovidequickfixesofgoodfortune.Theseare
short-termsolutions;ifyoudiscoverthattheseoilsworkwell
for you, then reapply consistently and constantly.
Red Fast Luck
Essential oil of cinnamon bark Essential oil of
wintergreen Vanilla absolute or pure vanilla
extract
Asitsnamestates,thisoilmustbered.Therearethreeways
to achieve this:
• Blend the ingredients into Turkey red oil
• Blend the ingredients into sunflower and jojoba
oils,thenusealkanet,abotanicaldyetocolorit.
Alkanetbestowsitsownblessingsofgoodfortune
butachievingthecorrectcoloristimeconsuming
and labor intensive
• The quick fix method: blend the ingredients into
sunflower and jojoba oils, then add red food
coloring
Use Red Fast Luck Oil to anoint anything associated with
drawingmoneyintoyourbusiness:tools,machines,station-
ery, ledger books, etc. Most especially, anoint all money in
yourcashdrawer,sothatitreturnstoyouonthedouble.If285/901
youdon’tworkwithcash,thendiscreetlyanointacornerof
all checks paid out.
Red Fast Luck may be used to anoint any other better
business charm, to provide enhancement and speed.
Double Fast Luck Oil
Red Fast Luck isn’t fast enough? Turn it into Double Fast
LuckOil!DoubleFastLuckOilisusedexactlylikeRedFast
Oil,howeveritallegedlyproducestwicetheeffectsatdouble
speed.DoubleFastLuckcombinesthecolorsgreenandred.
Traditionally red represents luck and life, while green rep-
resents growth and prosperity. However, modern associ-
ationsfactorintothisoil’spoweraswell.Greenandredhave
evolvedintoChristmascolors:thegoalofthisoilistomake
every day seem like Christmas. It is an excellent device for
shopkeepersandmanufacturerswho’dliketomaintainthose
Christmas Evelevel sales throughout the entire year.
1. Createagreenwaterinfusion.Thisismostpower-
fulifdonewithcash-drawingbotanicalslikebasil,
parsley, or mint. However, this will produce a
subtle green. If you have visual expectations of
brightgreen,usegreenfoodcoloring,eitheralone
or as color enhancement.
2. GentlypourthisinfusionoverRedFastLuckOil.
When at rest, the oil and water should separate,
providingtwodistinctlayersofcolor.Shakeitup,
dispersing the layers when you wish to use oil.286/901
Rose of Jericho Better Business
Spell
Among the Rose of Jericho’s many blessings are increased
businessandcashflow.Re-hydratetherosebyplacingitina
dish of spring water. Although marketers assure that the
rosewillbloomovernightorwithin24hours,itisverynor-
malfortheprocesstotakeseveraldays.Oncetherosehas
bloomed, change its water every Friday (the old water be-
comesRoseofJerichoWaterandhasmanyuses),accom-
panied by the murmuring of psalms or other sacred verses.
Rue Better Business Path
Because rue possesses extremely potent protective powers,
this spell guards your business’s well-being too. Grind and
powder rue. Sprinkle a path to your business, using this
powder to attract customers.
Employment Spells
Manybetterbusinessspellspresumethatyouownyourown
business,areanindependentcontractor,orsomehowhavea
shareinthebusiness’sfortunes.Maybeallyoureallyneedisa
job.
EmploymentSpellsarelessfinanciallyorientedthanBet-
ter Business Spells—at least less directly so. Employment287/901
Spellsencompassenchantmentsneededtofindajob,keepa
job, and achieve professional success and happiness. There
arealsospellsforfinessingadifficultbossorsupervisorand
getting along with co-workers—or not, as the case may be.
• Employment-seeking spells are best co-
ordinated with the New Moon
• Coordinate these spells with other more
conventional attempts to locate work.
No matter how effective the spell, fail-
ure to actively seek employment may
counteract any chance of success
• Many employment spells, particularly
those that assist you in finding work,
assume that a certain mobility is re-
quired: often some sort of magically
empowered object or charm bag must
beconjured upthatcanaccompany you
to interviews and work
Boss Fix
Isgoingtoworkalessthansatisfyingexperience?Perhapsit’s
notthejobthat’stheproblem;maybeyouhaveasupervisor
or boss who persecutes you, picks on you, is never satisfied
withyou,andgenerallymakesgoingtoworktheequivalentof
goingtohell?Youdon’twanttoleaveyourjob;you’djustlike
your boss to leave you alone.288/901
The Hoodoo solution isBoss Fix Powder.
Accordingtoitsmostextravagantpromises,thisspellal-
legedly causes supervisors to consider you with love and fa-
vor.Atitsmorerealistic,itoffersaboundarylinesothatat
least you’ll be left alone to perform your job in peace.
Boss Fix Powder
1. Emptythetobaccofromonecigarette.(Inorderof
preference: a cigarette that actually belonged to
your boss, his or her favorite brand, any cigarette.)
2. Combine it with some shredded newspaper. (In
orderofpreference:yourboss’sactualnewspaper,
a copy of a newspaper he or she favors, any
newspaper.)
3. Add some chili powder and grind all theingredi-
ents together into a fine powder.
4. Make sure the powder is fine: this is intended to
beaverydiscreetspell.Yourbossalreadydoesn’t
like you!
5. When the opportunity arises, sprinkle just a tiny
bit of powder on or around your boss’s chair. If
that’s too much of a risk, drop a little over the
thresholdoftheoffice,sothatheorshewillinevit-
ably step over it.
Thisisahighlyindividualspell,tailoredtowardonetarget.
Ifmorethanonepersonpersecutesyou,makefreshBossFix
for each person.289/901
Boss Fix Candle Spell
This spell, cast to receive a raise or promotion, may be a
safer, less stressful method of using Boss Fix Powder.
1. Carveanddressafigurecandletorepresentyour
boss or supervisor.
2. Place it on a tray covered by aluminum foil and
surround the candle with a circle of Boss Fix
Powder.
3. Carve and dress another candle to represent you.
4. Dress this candle with a Commanding oil. (Wo-
menshouldalsoincorporate Martha the Dom-
inatorOil;men,useHighJohntheConquer-
or Oil.)
5. Placethiscandleonthetraybutelevateitsothatit
is looking down at the first candle.
6. Burn both candles.
7. Sit behind the candle that represents you, facing
theothercandle.Speaktothatcandle;tellitwhat
you need.
8. Movethebosscandlesothatit’srestingatopthe
powder. (Ideally, if possible, dispose of the rem-
nants of this spell in your boss’s trashcan.)
Crown of Success
Employment Spells
CrownofSuccessOilassistsyoutofindajob,landthejob,
andretainthejob.It’salsousedforprofessionalsuccessand290/901
advancements, including obtaining promotions and greater
financial benefits. Crown of Success may be used to en-
hanceanyotheremploymentcharmorspell:itisanentirely
benevolent formula.
Crown of Success Spell (1)
CrownofSuccessmaybeappliedtothebodysothatbyradi-
atingitsmagic,youserveasacharm.AddCrownofSuccess
toyourbath,ormassageitontoyourbody,especiallyyour
hands and feet.
Crown of Success Spell (2)
1. Dress a lodestone withCrown of Success Oil.
2. Placeitinareddrawstringbagandcarryitwith
you, at work or while searching for employment.
Devil’s Shoestrings Employment
Spell
Despiteitsname,devil’sshoestrings,there’snothingsatanic
about this root charm—quite the opposite in fact. Devil’s
shoestrings, the roots of the Viburnum species, earned its
namebecauseitallegedlyhasthepowertotripthedevilup,
proverbiallytyinghisshoelacestogether.Devil’sshoestrings
has an affinity for locating and maintaining employment.291/901
Use it to find a job or to improve conditions at the current
one.
• Carry it in your pocket
• Pin it within your clothing
• Carry it in a conjure bag
• Attach it to a cord and wear it around your neck
Don’t Sabotage My Success Spell
Are you being set up? Perhaps your boss is unhappy with
you or you haven’t received your just rewards because
you’vebeenmalignedandslanderedbyhostileorjealousco-
workers. Although you may wish to supplement with addi-
tionalProtection,EvilEyeandUnblockingSpells,thispartic-
ularspelltargetsco-workerswhosabotageyourroadtoca-
reer success. Allegedly it will foil any malevolence directed
toward you. Prepare a separate mojo for each person who
appears to sabotage you.
1. Writetheco-worker’snameonasquareofbrown
paper three times.
2. Writeyourownnameovereachoftheco-worker’s
names, saying: “I cross you and I cover you.”
3. Anointthecornersofthepaperwithessentialoils
of bergamot, clove bud, and lavender.
4. Fold up the paper, placing it inside a red flannel
drawstringbag,togetherwithadevil’sshoestring
root and some cumin seed.
5. Maintainthisdiscreetlyintheworkplace,feeding
daily with a drop of essential oil of lavender for
reinforcement.292/901
Dream Job Spell
1. Write up an advertisement for your dream job.
2. Anoint this “ad” withCome To Me Oil.
3. Placeitinaconjurebagandcarryitwithyouuntil
your dream is realized (even while employed
elsewhere).
4. Anoint with additional oil weekly.
Employment Conjure Bag
1. Fillacharmbagwiththreegarliccloves,ninedis-
tinctcrumbsofbread,alodestone,andsomemag-
netic sand.
2. Dress with a touch ofMagnet Oil.
3. Wearorcarrytojobinterviews,addinganewdrop
of oil prior to each one, if possible.
Employment Protection Spell
Tieredribbonsunderyourdesktoprovidemagicalprotec-
tion at work.293/901
Essence of Bend Over Professional
Happiness and Success Spell
EssenceofBendOver,themostconcentratedoftheCom-
manding condition oils, takes commanding and compelling
intotherealmofdomination.Indeed,amongitsotherfunc-
tions,thisoilisusedinsexualdominationspells.However,
oneofitsprimaryusesistoturnthetablesonanemployer,
particularly for those in menial or service occupations,
where continued employment may depend upon the boss’s
whims and personal satisfaction. Essence ofBend Over en-
ablestheemployeetodiscreetlyswitchthebalanceofpower,
sothatheorsheisabletosetprofessionalboundariesand
dictatetermsofservice,althoughtheemployermaynotreal-
izethatthisisthecase.Thisisnotmeantasanevilspellbut
as a method of preserving a much-needed job and curbing
potential abuse and humiliation. And the oil’s name? The
goalistohavesomeoneelsebendoverandbowdowntoyou
for a change.
Rubtheoilontodoorknobs,sothatthosewhoopenthe
doorsfallunderyourspell.Oryoucouldrubadropbetween
your palms and immediately touch the target of your spell.
Find a Job Spell
This is a bit of an arts and crafts spell:
1. Designate a figure candle to represent you.
2. Do basic candle carving (name, identifying in-
formation)butthenkeepgoing:carveandscratch294/901
thewaxtorepresent youinworkmode.Createa
badgeonthecandle’schestorscratchtheimageof
a briefcase into the wax.
3. Meanwhilecreateamodelofyouridealworkplace
fromanopen-toppedbox.Itcanbeasspecificas
youwishorasgeneral.Decorateandembellishas
desired.Makesuretocreateadoorlargeenough
for the candle to enter.
4. Have the figure face the workplace.
5. Burn the candle in thirty-minute increments for
six consecutive waxing moon days, moving the
candle ever closer to the “job.”
6. Ontheseventhday,bringthecandlewithinyour
“workplace” and let the candle burn down
completely.
Gravel Root Employment Spell
Gravelroothasanaffinityforthosewhomustearntheirliv-
ing. Carry it within a conjure bag to find and preserve
employment.
Happy Harmony Employment Spell
(1) Cookies
To create a harmonious relationship with bosses and co-
workers,ratherthantoachievedomination,bakecookiesfor
everyone.Murmuryourintentionsoverthebatter,focusing
on your desires during each step of the baking process.295/901
Happy Harmony Employment Spell
(2) Sweetgrass
Burnsweetgrasstoencourageco-workerstooperateharmo-
niously, without jealousy and backbiting.
Hot Foot It Out Of My Work Place
Spell
Ifthereisstillconflictwithinyouroffice,despiteyourbestef-
fortstofosterharmoniousworkingrelationships,encourage
unpleasantco-workerstoseekotheremployment,oratleast
leave you alone, with Hot Foot Powder.
1. Grind equal quantities of black pepper, cayenne
pepper, salt, and sulfur together.
2. Sprinkle it on or around the target’s chair and
desk.
Thefollowingspellsareusedtoenhanceprobabilitiesofsuc-
cess during employment interviews.
Job Interview Success Spell
1. Charge sea salt with your desire: hold the salt in
your hand and murmur your desires into it.
2. Place a little salt in your pocket prior to the
interview.296/901
3. Ifpossible,sprinkleatinybitofsaltonyourinter-
viewer’s clothes without being observed. (Have a
good explanation handy, just in case you are
caught!)
If you’re unable to sprinkle the person, try and sprinkle a
littlesaltoverthethresholdtotheofficeorevenintheoffice,
preferably near the interviewer’s desk or chair.
Itisnotworthtakingunduerisks:intheory,merelycar-
rying the salt in your pocket enhances your probability of
being hired or promoted, although sprinkling as directed will
maximize the effects.
Job Interview Self-Confidence Bath
The following magical bath enhances self-confidence and
personalmagnetism,andincreaseschancesofsuccess.Take
thebatheitherjustpriortotheintervieworthenightbefore.
Remembertoallowyourselftoair-dryandleavethebotan-
icals in the infusion, for utmost power, if at all possible.
1. Place allspice berries, cinnamon sticks, cloves,
whole nutmegs, and pieces of sandalwood in a
bowl.
2. Cover with boiling water and let the botanicals
steep for a while—at least an hour.
3. Meanwhile, draw a bath for yourself.
4. Standinthetubandtossthenowlukewarminfu-
sion over your body.
5. Soak and steep yourself in the bath.297/901
Magic Mirror Office Harmony Spell
A magic mirror may be used to counteract jealousy, back-
stabbing, and general negative energy: the proverbial evil
vibes.Thisspellrequiresabright,sunnyday.Althoughitisa
Chinese-derivedspell,itmaybeunderstoodinthecontextof
the Egyptian spirit Sekhmet, who both heals and destroys
with laser beam solar rays.
1. Bring a small round mirror to the scene of the
crimeortheplaceofmisery.Ideallythisisamir-
rorthatcanfitintothepalmofyourhand,forut-
most discretion.
2. Slowly,withoutdrawingundueattentiontoyour-
self,circulatethroughouttheroom,withthemir-
rorinyourhand,reflectingeverythingintheroom
for at least several seconds. Include individuals,
too,ifyoufeelthisisnecessary.Thisspellremoves
malevolent energy and intent: it causes no harm.
Youareessentiallyvacuumingnegativeenergyout
of the room and people.
3. The mirror will store these reflections. When
you’ve completed collecting reflections, face the
mirror downwards or wrap it in dark fabric.
4. Whentheopportunitypresentsitself,takethemir-
ror outside.
5. Holdthemirroruptothesunfornolongerthan
nine seconds. Negativity is burned away and re-
placed by positive solar energy.
Note: Before performing any solar mirror spells, read the
safety tips in theRitual Tools and Techniqueschapter.298/901
The Nine Day Employment Spell
Allegedly this spell produces results within nine days;
however,itmustbeaccompaniedbyintensiveeffortstoloc-
ate work.
1. TieaHighJohntheConquerorrootandacinna-
mon stick together, with green, red, or gold
thread,knottingyourdesireandintentionintothe
charm.
2. Dress the botanicals with Three Kings Oil and
place inside a red flannel drawstring bag.
3. Eachmorning,beforestartingthatday’sjobhunt,
anoint the charm with additional Three Kings
Oil.
Should your situation remain unchanged and unimproved
after nine days, this indicates that it’s time to reconsider
your plans and assess alternatives.
Orange Candle Job Spell
1. Writeadescriptionofyourdreamjoband/oryour
employmentexpectationsonthebackofacopyof
your CV/resumé.
2. BrushtheCVwithhoneyandsprinkleitwithmag-
netic sand.
3. Fold the CV nine times.
4. AnointanorangecandlewithVanVanOilwhile
you visualize your employment dreams come true.
5. Roll the candle in gold sparkles.299/901
6. Place it atop the folded CV and burn, coinciding
with the New Moon.
Pow-Wow Career Enhancement
Spell
Pow-Wow Power Potion may be used for career en-
hancement as well as for psychic enhancement. Its vivid
golden color and sweet fragrance provide encouragement
and self-confidence, as well.
1. Massage the oil over all your body or just your
hands prior to employment interviews or any
stressful meetings.
2. Not only is your personal power boosted but the
oilcanalsosharpenthatsixthsensesothatyou’ll
know the right thing to say at the right moment.
Saint Joseph’s Employment Spell
Saint Joseph is the patron of the unemployed, fathers, and
step-fathers. He is traditionally appealed to for assistance
withfindingemployment.Shouldyourequireworkinorder
to feed a family, he may be helpful and sympathetic.
Although there are various depictions of Saint Joseph,
for employment spells he must be shown holding the baby
Jesus.
1. Post the appropriate chromolithograph.
2. Keep a vigil candle burning.300/901
3. Request his assistance and search for work.
Seven Knob Employment Search
Green seven-knob candles are beneficial for employment
magic.
1. Charge the candle with your desire.
2. Scratchawishorgoaloneachknob.Thenameof
aprospectiveemployermayalsobescratchedinto
the wax.
3. Burn one knob daily for seven days.
Ten of Diamonds Professional
Success and Happiness Spell
Playingandtarotcardsmaybeusedtoinfluenceyourfuture
aswellasforetellit.Thekey,inbothcases,istochoosethe
right cards.
1. Remove the ten of diamonds from a new deck of
playing cards and lay it on a dish.
2. Sprinkle it with Crown of Success Oil and
Magnet Oil.
3. Addahandfulofcoinsand/orpapermoneyand/
or spirit money.
4. Carve a green candle with your identifying
information.
5. DressthecandlewithCrownofSuccessOiland
Magnet Oil.301/901
6. Place the candle atop the card and burn.
7. Oncethecandlehascompletelyburned,gatherup
the ashes, coins, whatever is left of the playing
card(itmayormaynotburn),andanyfortuitous-
looking wax remnants. Place them in a red mojo
hand. Carry with you or keep it in a safe place.Cleansing Spells
Isn’tthehousecleanenough?Itakeadailyshower,isn’tthat
sufficient?
Magical cleansing spells have little to do with actual
cleanliness, as defined by the absence of dirt, dust, or dis-
order,althoughtherearespellsthataccomplishbothsortsof
cleaning simultaneously. Even the most slovenly, disorgan-
ized witch will maintain a regular schedule of psychic
cleansing.
Attheirmostbasic,cleansingspellsremovepsychicand
spiritualdebris.Acertainlevelofthisdebrisaccumulatescon-
stantly.Asyoubecomemorepsychicallyaware,youmaybe-
comemoreconsciousofthisandfeelagreaterneedtoremove
it on a regular basis.
Cleansingsremovelow-levelspiritualentitiesthatareat-
tractedtoritual,ifonlytofeedparasiticallyoffthegenerated
energy. Knowingly or unknowingly, these entities obstruct
andweakenyourpsychicwork,lesseningyourchancesofsuc-
cess. In addition, cleansings welcome and make room for
more benevolent, helpful spirits.
How do you know when you need to cleanse?
• Althoughitmaynotbenecessaryforeveryquick-
fix spell, formal rituals begin with cleansings
• Spells and petitions directed toward spirits are
the equivalent of inviting an honored guest to
enter your home. Spiritual cleansing beforehand
is a measure of respect303/901
• Many magic workers perform cleansings on a
regular schedule to suit their specific needs,
whether daily, weekly, or monthly
• Ifaroomdoesn’tfeelrightallofasudden,ifyour
dog suddenly refuses to enter a room, this may
indicate the need for cleansing rites
• Cleanse any areas that feel oppressive, slightly
off,orcreepy.Letyourinnervoiceguideyou.Any
areathathasbeenthesceneofviolenceoraviol-
ent emotional altercation needs cleansing
• Areasthatarefrequentlyand/orconsistentlythe
scene of violence or altercations need extra-
strong cleansing, followed by protective rituals
• Cleansingsremoveanysenseoftaint,replacingit
with purification and sacredness
Areas,people,ritualtools,orotherobjectsmaybecleansed.
Various methods and tools of varying intensity exist for
cleansing.Thisisverypersonalmagic:theresultsareappar-
entimmediately.Youmustfeelcleansed.Choosethemethods
that resonate most powerfully for you. Your spells will be
mosteffectiveandpotentifaccompaniedbyvisualization,af-
firmation, and/or the chanting of sacred texts.
If at any level you perceive that magic is inher-
ently evil or bad, yet you continue to cast spells,
your need for cleansings is even greater than
most. At the simplest level, cleansings remove
the proverbial bad vibes. On a more serious note,
cleansings provide healing and soothing wherever304/901
there has been violence, excessive anger, humili-
ation, and defilement.
Area or Space
Cleansing
Anyareamaybecleansed,fromatabletopaltarareaorthein-
side of a magic circle to an entire home or office building.
Whencleansingalargearea,certainspotsarebelievedtore-
quire extra care and attention. Vulnerable areas include
doors, windows, and other thresholds. Corners, especially
dark ones, and the area behind a door, especially one that’s
consistently propped open, are considered favorite resting
spots for malevolent spirits, as are dark closets, bathrooms,
andanyareathatfeelscreepy.Doyourecallhowchildrenof-
tenresist sticking fingers and toesoutofthecovers forfear
thatsomethingunderthebedwillnipthem?Darkspacesun-
der the bed can accumulate more than dust bunnies. These
are all areas requiring extra attention.
Anyone actively involved in the space cleansing process
or exposed to the cleansing materials automatically receives
personalcleansingaswell,althoughcertainpersonalcleans-
ing methods cast a more direct and intensive spell.305/901
Asperging Spells
Asperging means sprinkling with liquid in order to effect
spiritual and magical cleansing. These are ancient rites: just
likeburninglooseincense,thesearetechniquesknowntoour
earliest ancestors. Asperging spells direct the elemental
cleansingpowerofwaterandotherliquidstowardaspecific
area. Depending upon what is used to direct the water, the
elementalcleansingpowerofEarthmayalsobeincorporated,
through the use of botanicals.
• Use ritual tools or botanicals to asperge
• Use your fingers to flick the water where it’s
needed
• Weave an asperging wand of cleansing plants:
vervain,lavender,hyssop,androsemaryarefa-
vorites.Thistechniquecanalsoincorporateknot
magic
Aspergingisthemostpopularmethodofliquid-basedspace
cleansing. It is more discreet than smudging or any sort of
smoke-based method. Burning botanicals inevitably leaves a
lingeringfragrance.Bydefinition,itisthearomaoftheburn-
ing botanicals that provides the cleansing: the inclination of
the cleanser is inevitably to strengthen the aroma. This
provides the confidence in the effectiveness of the cleansing
and its long-term effects. However, aromas tend to evoke
highly personal reactions: fragrances favored in cleansings
may or may not meet with your neighbors’ or housemates’
approval.
The issue of fire safety always looms too. Because
something is done for positive spiritual purposes does not306/901
guarantee that accidents and tragedies will not occur. With
water-basedcleansings,youareabletomaintaintightercon-
trol over safety and fragrance. However, different methods
resonatefordifferentpeople:foranintensivecleansingritual,
you may wish to combine several methods.
Themostbasiccleansingliquidisseasaltdissolvedinto
spring or rainwater. Any of the following formulas also will
provide space cleansing. Check theFormularyfor recipes:
• Holy Water
• Florida Water
• Indigo Water
• Marie Laveau Water
• Notre Dame Water
• Pollution Water
• Rose of Jericho Water
• Tar Water
• War Water
Dispersethemthroughanarea.Youcanintensifythepower
by combining formulas. Florida Water, in particular, em-
powers any other formula to which it’s added. For instance,
combine Florida Water and Indigo Water. Sprinkle
through the home or area daily as maintenance cleansing.
Ocean Water Asperging Spell
Unlessyoulivebythesea,thisspellmayinvolvemorework
and preparation than sprinkling with salted fresh water,
however the potential power is also greater.307/901
1. Carryoceanwatertotheareatobecleansedina
glassormetalflask.(Formaximumeffect,request
permission and offer thanks to the Spirits of the
Sea.)
2. Aspergeasneeded,ideallywitharosemaryorsea
lavender wand.
Peppermint Asperging Spell
Create an infusion by pouring boiling water over pepper-
mint. Strain and use a peppermint branch to asperge as
needed.
Pine Asperging Spell
Soak pine needles in warm water and asperge as needed.
TiplantisasacredandintegralcomponentofHawaiianma-
gicalandspiritualtraditions.Usingaleafasanaspergingtool
addselementsofprotectiontopurificationrituals.(Tiplantis
notthesameaseithertheAustralianorNewZealandteatree
butacompletelydistinctbotanicalspecies,despitethesimilar
names.)
Broom Cleansings
Youthoughtwitches’broomswereonlyforflying?Orperhaps
they’re for ambience? Think again: a broom is as effective a
spiritual cleanser as it is a household cleaning tool. Some
maintain special ritual brooms, for magical use only. Some308/901
spellscallforreallyspecialritualbrooms,intendedtobeused
onlyoncethendestroyed,whileotherspellsutilizeanyavail-
able broom, including the one you use for regular daily
sweeping.
Broom Cleansing Spell (1)
1. Useanybroomtosweepthedustfromthewestto
the east.
2. Burn this dust and toss the ashes outdoors.
3. Completetheritualbymoppingthefloorswitha
magical floorwash (formulas follow on pages
217–18), followed by a protective incense
fumigation.
Broom Cleansing Spell (2)
This spell incorporates a single-use magical purification
broom.
1. Use one or any combination of the following
botanicals: broom, cedar, fennel, hyssop, rose-
mary, sage, vervain.
2. Arrangethebotanicalsandtiethemtothebottom
ofabranchwithraffia,visualizing, charging,and
knotting. (Any branch may be used, however an
ash branch is considered particularly powerful.)
3. Sprinkle with salted water or any preferred puri-
fication formula.
4. Sweep the area.309/901
5. Disassemble the broom outside, away from the
cleansed space.
6. Burythecomponents inthegroundortossthem
into living waters, flowing away from you.
Broom Cleansing Spell (3)
Anybroommaybeusedinthisspell,homemadeorcommer-
cial, however it must be discarded at the conclusion of the
spell.
1. Addaninfusionoflemongrassandsomewhiteor
rice vinegar to a bucket filled with water. (If you
havetimetomakelemongrassvinegar,thisiseven
more effective than the infusion.)
2. Dip a broom into the bucket of floorwash and
sweeptheareafromthecenter,workingyourway
outwards.Thisdoesnotneedtobeacommercial
broom.Abranchwithattachedstiffherbsisfine,
however a mop may not be substituted.
3. Whencomplete,dumpthewashwateroutsideand
discard the broom at a crossroads.
Candle Cleansers
Candles deliver the magical space-purifying effects of fire,
without the intensity of smoke or the fragrance associated
with fumigation cleansings.310/901
Blessing Oil
CreateBlessingOilbyaddingfrankincenseandbenzointoa
blendofoliveandjojobaoils.Useeitherthegroundresinor
essentialoils.Dresswhiteandbluecandleswiththeoiland
burn to purify the atmosphere.
Coconut Candle Cleanser
Coconutspossessanaromathatmanyfindpleasing,sensu-
ous,andevocative.Releasingthescentofcoconutintotheair
provides long-term spiritual purification in a relaxed, fra-
grant manner. Unfortunately what is commercially avail-
ableisalmostinvariablysynthetic;thusthefragrancemay
be pleasing but the power is nonexistent. Make your own
coconut candles.
Thesimplestmethodistousepour-and-meltwaxfrom
the craft store. White or brown are the preferred colors. If
youareaskilledcandlemaker,however,chooseanymethod
or wax you prefer.
1. Preparethecandleshellpriortomeltingthewax.
You may use any type of container you choose;
however,ahollowed-outhalfofacoconutshellis
ideal.
2. Melt the wax until liquid.
3. Stirinpurecoconutextract.Thequantitydepends
upon the desired intensity of fragrance.
4. Makesurethatthewickisattachedsecurelytothe
container, either by holding it in place until the311/901
waxhardensorbyattachingittoapencilorstick
laid across the top of the container.
5. Pour the scented wax into the container.
6. Allow the wax to harden.
Supplement the fragrance with a few drops of ginger,
frankincense, or lemon essential oils.
Cleansing Powders
Powdersaresprinkledthroughanareatoradiateacleansing
effect as well as to absorb malignancies in the air. Sprinkle
lightly: typically the powders will disperse into the atmo-
spherequickly.Ifanypowderisstillvisibleaftersevendays,
vacuumitupandreplace.Ifthisoccursconsistently,youare
either applying too much or stronger cleansing methods are
needed.
Exorcism Powder
Despiteitsname,ratherthanperformingactualexorcisms,
this powder helps eliminate negative emotions, vibrations,
and low-level spirit emanations.
1. Blendthefollowingingredientstogetherandgrind
into a fine powder:
Dried basil
Frankincense
Rosemary312/901
Rue
Yarrow
2. Blend this powder into arrowroot powder.
3. Sprinkle as needed.
Cleansing Spirits
Sometimesyouneedsomeoneelsetocleanforyou.Callingin
thespiritstoperformacleansingislikehiringadeluxeclean-
ing service. They perform a better, more thorough job than
theaveragepersoncould;theyarecapableofremovingspir-
itual dirt and debris that you weren’t aware even existed.
Like a cleaning service, these spirits expect to be paid.
Somedemandspecificgiftsorofferings.Others,likethean-
gels, expect a certain atmosphere of respect and reverence:
angelsfeedoffthefragranceofpreciousresins.Filltheroom
with their aroma—it will enhance the cleansing.
Asanyonewho’severhiredacleaningserviceknows,you
mustcleanpriortothespirits’arrival.Dosomebasiccleans-
ingsfirsttopreparetheareafortheirpresence:smudgesticks
or asperging cleansing waters are appropriate.
Four Archangels Cleansing Service
Summon the archangels; they may arrive alone or leading
hostsoflesserangels.Thefourarchangelsmaybeinvokedto
initiateallritualsandalsoforthecleansingandprotection
of ritual space. Angels, most especially the archangels, are
not the cute little cherubs one sees depicted on Valentine’s
Day cards. These are beings of power and majesty. Their313/901
presencemayremaininvisibleortheymaymanifestinvari-
ousforms,howeveratypicalvisionofangelsinvolvesabe-
ingsobrighttheyremainvisibleevenwithyoureyesclosed.
Theirpresenceascleansingagentsburnslikepurifyingfire,
yet they leave holiness in their wake, rather than
devastation.
1. Cast a circle, with a sword, crystal-tipped wand,
flaming torch, or other tool.
2. Pauseateachcardinalpointandinvoketheappro-
priate archangel:
Raphael to the East
Michael to the South
Gabriel to the West
Uriel to the North
Maketheinvocationassimpleoraselaborateasyouchoose.
Differentschoolspositwhichangelhasdominionoverwhich
direction. If you are familiar with other directions, choose
what resonates for you.
WhetherthefollowingritualbeganinAfrica,Haiti,orinNew
Orleans itself is unknown, however it emerged in New Or-
leansasanadaptationofHaitianritual.Extremelypopular,it
passedintogeneralAmericanmagicalusageandisnowfamil-
iaralloverEarth.Itisdifficulttofindabotanical,occult,or
spiritual supply store that will not teach you this spell.
However,whilemanyareawareofthemechanicsoftheritu-
al, few understand the spiritual context of this spell.
Theritualcallsuponextremelypowerfulandprominent
lwa to provide cleansing and protection. Although their
names are invoked, their identities are forgotten: for many
people, this spell is a modern equivalent of the litanies of314/901
ancient,forgottenwordsofpowerinvokedbymedievalmagi-
cians. However, these are no forgotten spirits: these lwa re-
mainactiveandvital,invokeddailyinVodounritual.Ifyou
callthem,theymaycome.Ifyoutakethetimetounderstand
whoyou’re calling, this spell becomes even more powerful.
New Orleans Voodoo Spirit
Cleansing Service
Thisspellmayalsobeusedpurelyasaspirit-banishingspell,
howeveritdoesapotentjobofcleaningupallnegativevi-
brationsanddebris.Itisbestperformedatmidnightduring
awaxingmoon.Besureproperventilationisavailable:the
smell of sulfur is pungent and potentially irritating.
1. Placeasquareofredpaperontoasmallmetalor
stone plate. You will need one plate plus its con-
tents for each corner of any room you wish
cleansed. Most rooms require four sets.
2. Place a pinch of sulfur on top of each paper.
3. Placeeachplateinacorner,sothatthereisonein
each.
4. Light the sulfur.
5. Simultaneously, address the four lwa invoked in
thisritual,turningtofaceeachnewcorneraseach
name is uttered.
Granbois!
Baron Carrefour!
Baron Cimitiere!
Damballah!
I invoke you! With the power of your names, I315/901
command and compel all evil spirits, spells, and
vibrations,anynegativeentities,toleavemeand
my home and never return!
6. Withdraw from the room, maintaining a vigilant
eye on fire safety.
Cleansing Through Smoke
Burningbotanicalsreleasestheirpowersintotheair,releas-
ing various magical effects. What is actually being released
dependsuponwhatisbeingburned.Thisistrueinareasout-
side magic too: up until World War I, French hospitals
burnedjuniperandrosemaryinordertoreleasethevolatile
oils to provide antiseptic, antibacterial effects.
Smokecleansingsareconsideredamongthemostpotent
of cleansing spells. Their effect lingers as long as you can
smell any vestiges of the botanical aroma. Strong, fragrant,
visiblesmokethatshootsstraightupisconsideredespecially
powerful and auspicious.
Inordertocleanseanareaeffectively,thearomaofthe
burning plant material hastopermeate theair. Intheory,if
the quantities of the botanical cleanser are great enough,
there’s no need to waft the smoke around. Hence the huge
mounds of frankincense and myrrh burned in ancient
temples, as well as the traditional Midsummer and Beltane
bonfires. If you want to burn such quantities, however, be
awarethatnotonlywilleverycornerofyourownareabeper-
meatedwithfragrance,butthataromasspreadandarediffi-
culttocontain.Yourneighborswillbecallingtoeithercom-
plain or to thank you, as the case may be.316/901
Few,however,haveaccesstosuchquantitiesofbotanic-
als.Therefore,mostcleansingsmokeneedstobedirectedto-
wardwhatneedstobecleansed.Burningreleasesthemagical
propertiesintotheatmosphere:actualcleansingcomesfrom
direct exposure to the smoke.
Basic Botanic Fumigation Spell
Burning specific botanicals provides magical and spiritual
antisepticeffects.Thesebotanicalsinclude:aloeswood,ben-
zoin resin, bloodroot, cajeput, cinnamon, cloves, dragon’s
bloodresin,eucalyptus,frankincense,garlic,harmel(Syrian
rue), juniper, mastic, mugwort, myrrh, onions, rosemary,
sage(especiallywhitesage),SaintJohn’sWort,sandalwood,
thyme,wormwood,andyarrow.Burnthemaloneorinany
combination.
Many of these plants also radiate a protective aura:
maintainingthemasapresence,particularlyaslivingplants
butalsoasdriedamulets,canonlybebeneficial.Whatever
else these plants do (and many, such as frankincense,
dragon’sblood,andwormwoodareextremelyversatilema-
gically),theyalwaysradiateacleansing,purifyingaura.Al-
though certain methods of use intensify their cleansing ef-
fects, those effects are constant: the more these botanicals
are used, the more consistent their cleansing power.
The simplest of all smoke-cleansing methods is the smudge
stick.Asmudgestickisasmallwandmadefromdriedbotan-
icals. Although today the most famous smudge sticks derive
from Native American tradition, this is basically a very
simple,universaltool.TheoldEnglishlavenderwandis,inef-
fect, a smudge stick, albeit one that is not frequently burned.317/901
Smudging is the process of using directed smoke to
cleanseanarea,person,orobject.Smudgesticksarepopular
occulttoolsandeasilypurchased,buttheycanbejustaseas-
ily created:
1. Dry bunches of herbs.
2. When they have completely dried, bind them to-
gether with thin cotton thread.
3. Whenneeded,thestickislitandthesmokedirec-
ted toward and over whatever needs cleansing.
4. Afeatherfanisoftenusedtodirectthesmoke,al-
though you may also use your bare hands.
Be aware of fire safety: smudge sticks tend to smolder long
after the flames appear to have died out.
Although a smudge stick may theoretically be created
fromanydriedbotanicals,forcleansingpurposes,thefollow-
ing are most potent and practical:
• White sage or common garden sage
• Juniper
• Desert sage (a different species from the sage
above: an Artemisia, not aSalvia)
• Rosemary
Thesmudgestickhascertainadvantages:it’sneat,compact,
easily controlled, discreet, and mobile. Loose incense,
however,isalsoextremelyeffectiveandoffersyoutheluxury
of a wider selection of botanical material.
Manyofthemostpotentcleansingmaterialsaregumres-
insandwoodchipsthatdonotlendthemselvestobindingin-
to a wand. These are usually burned on charcoal, which is
placed on a dish, iron pan, or incense censer so that the
cleansing smoke may be directed as needed.318/901
Specific cleansing formulas have evolved:
Birch Cleansing Incense
Burn birch bark and twigs to remove negative energy.
Cast Out Evil Incense
Thispowerfulformulaprovidescleansingforareasprofaned
by evil and/or violence:
1. Blendandgrindthefollowingingredientstogether
into a fine powder:
Camphor
Cinnamon
Frankincense
Myrrh
Sandalwood
2. Sprinkle onto a lit charcoal and burn.
Cast Out Evil Extra Strength Spell
Forareasthathavebeentrulyprofanedandneedextra-po-
tent cleansing:
1. Do an initial moderate cleansing of the area.
2. Prepare the room by closing all windows and
sources of ventilation.
3. Prepare an incense burner with lit charcoals.319/901
4. Place a substantial quantity of Cast Out Evil in-
cense onto the burner.
5. Position the burner in the center of the room.
6. Letitremainthereforaminimumofanhour,and
overnightatlongest.Whiletheincenseburns,the
roomshouldbeclosedtoalloutsideventilation.If
it’spossibleforsomeonetostayintheroom,toat-
tend the incense, they will be rewarded with a
powerfulpersonalcleansing.Ifthisisnotpossible
andtheincensewillbetemporarilyunsupervised,
be extremely vigilant as to fire safety.
7. When sufficient time has passed, open windows,
provide ventilation, let the fresh air in.
Garlic Cleansing Spell
1. Place the reserved garlic peel in a mortar and
pestle and add brown sugar.
2. Pound and grind them together.
3. Sprinkletheresultontolitcharcoalorburnitona
cast iron pan.
4. Waftthefumesovertheareastobecleansed,al-
lowing the aroma to permeate and settle.
Old Affair Removal Cleansing
Incense
There aren’t only spiritual reasons for cleansing spells;
sometimesthey’renecessarytosetthestagefornewloveby320/901
removingallvestigesofthepast.Burnmyrtleanddriedrose
petals.
Pine Cleansing Incense
Grinddriedpineneedlestopowderandsprinkleonlitchar-
coals to cleanse an area of negative energy and entities.
Sacred Purification Incense
Thiscleansingformulaincorporatesthebotanicalsmostfre-
quentlyusedinsacredrites.Itremovesthenegativeandthe
tainted, leaving an aura of holiness behind.
Benzoin
Dragon’s blood
Frankincense
Myrrh
Sandalwood
Sea salt
1. Blend and grind the ingredients into a fine
powder.
2. Sprinkle onto a lit charcoal and burn.
Cleansing Through Sound
Musicplaysmanymagicalroles.Charms,inthemostancient
senseoftheword,weremeanttobesung.TraditionalFinnish321/901
magicianswerefamedfortheirabilitytosingthingsintoex-
istenceortohealviasongs.Experiencedmagicianswereex-
pected to possess songs that could halt bleeding.
Likebotanicalsorcrystals,perhapseverymusicalinstru-
menthasitsmagicaluses.Violinsandflutesareusedtocast
lovespells,whilethesoundsandreverberationsofdrumsand
percussion instruments provide extremely powerful
cleansings.
Cleansed by the Bell
Amongthereasonsbellsaretraditionallyincorporatedinto
churchesisthatbellsarepowerfulspacecleansers.Although
any bell may be used, the most effective for cleansing pur-
poses include silver bells, iron bells, and brass bells.
Maneki Neko is the amuletic Japanese beckoning cat.
Usuallyafree-standingfigurine,ManekiNekobellscleanse
personal and spatial auras, in addition to their traditional
function of attracting prosperity and protection.
Ringbellswheneveryoufeelcleansingisrequired.Hang
bells in a breezy spot so that their activity can be consistent.
Bells are interesting cleansers because, unlike other
methods,theycanoperatespontaneously.Shouldatypically
silent bell suddenly ring, especially without obvious cause,
payattention.Furthercleansingorprotectiveritualsmaybe
needed.322/901
The Serene Yet Powerful Method:
Singing Bowls
The harmonies created by Himalayan singing bowls are
usedtowashspace.Ideally,thegoalistoachieveaperfect
balance of yin and yang energies. This method is particu-
larlybeneficialbeforeritual.Ithasasoothingeffectonpar-
ticipantsaswell:beyondcleansing,itisalsousedtobalance
andharmonizeenergies—excellentfortheinitiationofgroup
ritual.
Thesingingbowlisaroundmetalbowlmadeinvarying
sizes.Itisportable,sothatitmaybecarrieddirectlytoany
area needing cleansing. Traditionally, the finest singing
bowls are crafted in Nepal from seven metals: gold, silver,
copper,iron,tin,lead,andzinc.Eachmetalcorrespondsto
oneofthesevenvisibleplanetsandthusincorporatesitsen-
ergies and blessings.
Asmallwoodenmalletisusedtotapthebowl,typically
three times for maximum effect. Different sounds are pro-
duceddependinguponwhetherthebowlistapped,rubbed,
orhit.Tryusingyourfingernail orthetipsofyourfingers
instead of the mallet. Adding varying amounts of water to
thebowlalsoaltersthesound.Experiment.Findthesounds
thatpleaseyou,thatliterallyresonatewithyou.Harmonize
the sound of the bowl with your own ears and intuition to
achieve the correct sound for your purpose and space.
1. Placeasmallcushionbeneaththebowlasit’scar-
ried. A round cushion is traditional. This is not
merely a formality: the cushion improves the
sound, lengthening the tone.323/901
2. Walk with the bowl, directing the sound as
needed.
3. For heavy-duty cleansing, place the bowl on its
cushiononatableinthecenterofaroom.Strike
it, letting its sound reverberate and radiate.
Like any other occult tool, given the opportunity, an indi-
vidualsingingbowlcandeveloparapportwithanindividu-
al person. A fine singing bowl is an exceptionally receptive
tool.
It will become attuned to anyone in frequent contact
with it. Store the bowl in soft, heavy fabric such as velvet
whennotinuse.Singingbowlsimprovewithage,becoming
more powerful with frequent use.
Singing bowls are also used for empowering, energiz-
ing, and replenishing space following any kind of space
cleansing.
Cleansing Vapors
Blessing Incense
Notallincensesaredry.Thisisaliquid,steam-basedincense
formula from Yemen.
1. Gently warm rose water or hydrosol.
2. Add sugar, stirring until the sugar is completely
dissolved.
3. Addsomeorallofthefollowing:aloeswood,rose
petals,sandalwoodpowder,blacktealeaves,attars
of jasmine, rose, sandalwood, and henna.324/901
4. Simmer, until steam rises.
5. Usethesteamtoblessandcleanseanarea,people,
and/or objects.
Chinese Vinegar Steam Cleanser
Steamistheresultofthemergedpowersofwaterandfire;it
isanextremelyeffectivespiritualcleanser.ThisChinesefor-
mula is recommended for a weekly standard cleansing:
1. Boilricevinegarinashallowpanuntilit’ssteam-
ing (a paella pan or similar is ideal).
2. Verycarefully,soasnottoburnyourself,carrythe
steamingpanofvinegarthroughalltheroomsof
the home, letting the vapors cleanse corners,
closets, all and any areas that don’t feel “right.”
Floorwashes
Floorwashesdon’tsoundasglamorousasincenseandasper-
ging,howevertheyareanintegralcomponentoftheHoodoo
andConjuremagicaltraditions.Theycombineactualphysical
house cleaning with spiritual and magical work, effectively
killingtwobirdswithonestone.Theyarepotentyetdiscreet
and perhaps the single most effective use of multi-tasking
within magic.
Although the liquid is called floorwash, technically it
referstothefinalrinseusedtocleanafloororotherinterior
surfaces.Itshouldnotberemovedbutallowedtoair-dry,so
that its power radiates into the surrounding atmosphere. In325/901
other words, the floor should be clean before applying the
floorwash.Theradiantpowerofthebotanicalsiswhatiscru-
cial:floorwashesareacomponentofmanyspellsforavariety
ofpurposes,includingprotectionandromance,inadditionto
their obvious value as a space-cleansing device.
Therearetwostandardmethodsofmakingafloorwash.
Choose which suits you:
• Fillabucketwithwarmwater.Addthemagical
infusion together with some white vinegar
• Create the infusion and pour it into an empty
bucket.Pourenoughboilingsaltedwateroverit
to fill the bucket. Add some white vinegar
Angelica Floorwash
In addition to its cleansing abilities, angelica possesses a
strong protective aspect.
1. Make a strong infusion from dried angelica.
2. Strain out the herbs.
3. Addtheinfusion,togetherwithsomewhiteorrice
vinegar,toabucketofwashwatertocleansefloors
and surfaces.
Aura Cleansing Floorwash
Agrimonyrepelsandsendsbackhexes.Peppermintisanag-
gressivecleanserthatbeckonsthepresenceofhelpful,bene-
volent spirits. Combined, these botanicals create a particu-
larly potent floorwash.326/901
1. Make a strong infusion from dried agrimony and
peppermint.
2. Strainouttheherbsandaddtheinfusionliquidto
a bucket of water, together with white or rice
vinegar.
3. Cleanse floors and surfaces.
Four Thieves Floorwash
Add Four Thieves Vinegar, black salt, and rosemary to a
bucket of floorwash.
New Home Floorwash
Thisisrecommendedforapreliminarycleansingwhenmov-
ingintoanewhome.Thisremovesoldvibrationsandemo-
tionslingeringfrompastresidentsandallowsyoutobegin
with a fresh slate.
1. Make a strong infusion from basil, hyssop, and
pine needles.
2. Strain and add to a bucket of rinse water, with
vinegar.
3. Cleanse floors and surfaces as needed.327/901
Post-cleansing Spell
After other Cleansing Spells are complete, add Cascarilla
Powdertoabucketofsaltedwater.Washdownfloorsand
walls to seal and enhance your previous efforts.
Full House Cleansings
Specialtechniquesmaybeneededshouldyouwishtomagic-
ally cleanse an entire building. Although many cleansing
spells assume that a home is being ritually cleansed, these
spells may also be used for workspaces or any other type of
building.
Coconut Cleansing Spell
1. Bring rum, Cascarilla Powder, and a whole
coconuttothecornerofyourhomefurthestfrom
the main entrance.
2. Takeamouthfulofrum.Don’tswallowit;instead
spray it over the whole coconut.
3. Next sprinkle Cascarilla Powder on the
coconut.
4. Rollthecoconutthroughyourhome,outthemain
entrance.
5. Pickitupandbringittoafour-waycrossroadsata
distancefromwhereyoulive,aremotecrossroads,
not one that you pass frequently.328/901
6. Circumambulatethefourpointsofthecrossroads,
droppingofferingsoffruit,coins,andcandyasyou
pass each one.
7. Bringthecoconutintothecenterofthecrossroads
and throw it to the ground, making sure that it
cracks open.
8. Leaveitthere.Returnhomeviaacircuitousroute
without looking back.
Intensive Space Cleansing
1. Takeanentirebunchofpeppermintandrubitvig-
orously against walls, furniture, objects, and
whatever else needs to be cleansed.
2. Whenthecleansingiscomplete,wrapthepepper-
mint in brown paper and remove it from your
home immediately.
3. Dispose of it far from home, returning via a cir-
cuitous route.
Jessamine Flowers House
Cleansing Spell
Botanicalsdon’thavetobeburnttocleanse:spreaddayJes-
samine petals throughout the house for spiritual cleansing
and to remove the residue of any malevolent spells cast
against you.329/901
New Home Major Cleansing Spell
Thiscleansingritualmaybeusedforindividualroomsorfor
anentirehouseandisanexcellentcleansingmethodpriorto
moving into a new home.
1. Blend essential oils of frankincense and sandal-
wood into olive oil.
2. Use this to dress a blue candle.
3. Place this candle onto a disposable saucer or plate.
4. Placethissaucerontopofsomespread-outsheets
of newspaper or a disposal tablecloth.
5. Cast a large circle with sea salt on the paper
aroundthecandleandsaucer.Thecirclemustbe
large enough for you to maneuver comfortably
within it.
6. Enterthecircle;youmayeitherstandorkneelon
the paper, and light the candle.
7. Close the doors and let the candle burn out. (Al-
ways maintain an eye on fire safety.)
8. Whenthecandleisfinished,foldeverythingupse-
curelyinsidethenewspaper.Donotspillevenone
grain of salt.
9. Takeittoamovingbodyofwater.Slideallbiode-
gradable materials into the water. Throw
everythingelseintoatrashcanatadistancefrom
your home. Walk away and don’t look back.
10. Repeat in every room that you would like cleansed.330/901
Salt Cleansing Spell
1. Make an infusion by pouring boiling water over
High John the Conqueror roots.
2. Sprinkle the infusion on salt. (Only moisten the
salt; don’t melt it.)
3. Allow the salt to dry out.
4. Sprinkle the salt around your home to absorb
negativity.
5. ReservetheremainingHighJohnliquidandrefri-
gerate. Repeat the spell as desired, daily or weekly.
Stationary Cleansers
Certainobjectsareperceivedasbeingsimilartomagicalvacu-
umcleaners.Theyabsorbmalevolenceandnegativity,remov-
ingitfromthepremises.Asageneralrule,whitefoodsmaybe
used in this manner.
Ingeneral,whentheobjectisfull,likeavacuumcleaner
bag,itneedstoberemovedfromthepremisesanddiscarded.
Crystals are the exception: they may be cleansed, effectively
emptyingthemofdebris,sothattheymaybeusedoverand
over again.
Stationarycleansersaretypicallyleftunsupervisedinan
area; if children and/or pets are present, make sure a safe
method is used.331/901
Amethyst Crystal Cleanser
Placelargeamethystsinroomcornerstoserveasspiritual
vacuumcleaners.Whentheylookdull,cleanseandrecharge
them. Other crystal gemstones recommended for space
cleansing include clear quartz crystal and malachite.
Basic Stationary Cleansing
Sprinklingdirectsthecleansing,howeverliquidsmayalsobe
used as stationary cleansers:
1. Placeanyofthecleansingformulasrecommended
inAspergingSpellsabove(butespeciallyFlorida
WaterandNotreDameWater),inshallowun-
covered pans.
2. Situatethemstrategicallythroughanarea,toab-
sorb negative energy and provide a cleansing
effect.
3. Replaceweekly.Iftheliquidstartstolookoddor
smell strange, however, replace it immediately.
Onion Space Cleansing Spell
1. Choponeonionintoquartersandplaceonepiece
in each corner of a room. Don’t peel the onion.
Don’t use a food processor. Chop it by hand.
2. Allow the onion pieces to remain in place
overnight.332/901
3. Bury them outside the following day.
4. Repeat the process for a total of five consecutive
nights.
Vinegar Cleanser
Plain vinegar is cheap, easily obtainable, and among the
strongest cleansing agents of all.
1. Placeacuporbowlofvinegarineveryroomthat
needs cleansing.
2. Replace weekly.
For intensified cleansing, add a square of camphor to the
vinegar.Toimprovethefragrance,addafewdropsofessen-
tialoilsoffrankincense,rose,orsandalwood,orblendwith
Florida Water.
Personal Cleansings
Personal cleansings are done in preparation for rituals and
spell-work.Theyhaveanempoweringeffectandwillremove
accumulated psychic debris that obstructs full expression of
personal power. In addition, many who delve into spiritual
work perform regularly scheduled cleansings, usually once a
week, as general magical maintenance.
Strongercleansingsareneededinspecialcircumstances:
theyprovidepsychichealingfollowingviolence,violation,or
humiliation.Personalcleansingscanalsoprovidereliefafter333/901
trivial,unpleasantexperiences.Shouldyoueverfeelsomehow
taintedorunclean,toanydegree,that’sthesignalthatsome
sortofpersonalcleansingritualisneeded.Choosetherituals
that resonate, most strongly for you.
Personalcleansingshaveanadvantageovermanyother
typesofspells:theireffectsarereadilyapparentfairlyimme-
diately. A successful cleansing spell leaves you feeling re-
freshed, renewed, andclean.
Manypersonalcleansings,particularlythebaths,maybe
performed for oneself. However, some cleansing techniques
require that one person performs the cleansing for another.
Tosomeextent,that’sbecausemanyaresurvivalsofshaman-
ic rituals. Shamanic healers provide profound cleansing and
soul restoration, beyond the scope of the average layperson.
Onceuponatime,unliketoday,shamanichealingwascom-
mon and accessible (according to many anthropologists and
historians,thetrueoldestprofessionisthatoftheshaman).
Perhapsitwillbesoagain:cleansingspellsdonotreplacethe
needforshamans.However,theirmethodshavebeenadap-
tedtohouseholduse:makesureyouchooseritualassistants
and cleansing assistants wisely.
Basil Cleansing Bath
Inadditiontostandardcleansingeffects,thisbathisexcel-
lentforremovingnegativeemotionscausedbyextendedex-
posure to very controlling people. Basil also enhances luck
and the potential for prosperity.
1. Pourapproximatelyonecupofboilingwaterover
one heaped teaspoon of dried basil.334/901
2. Allowthistostanduntilthewatercools,creatinga
strong infusion.
3. Add this to your bath.
Citrus Bath
1. Obtainasmanykindsofcitrusfruitsaspossible:
lemons, limes, oranges, tangerines, and so forth.
2. Drawabath,quartereachfruit,squeezethejuice
into the bath, and toss the fruit in the water.
3. Add yarrow hydrosol, as much as you like.
4. Get into the bath and rub the fruit over your body.
5. Letyourselfair-dry.(Youmaybestickybutletit
remain for as long as possible.)
Cleansing and Energy Balancing
Bath
The botanicals frankincense and myrrh are perceived as
happilymarried,perfectlybalanced,andamatchingcouple,
asarevetiverandpatchouli.Inadditiontoauracleansing,
these botanicals also balance yin and yang energies.
1. Add a cup of salt to a dish.
2. Add two drops each of essential oils of frankin-
cense, myrrh, patchouli, and vetiver. (You may
addmoreifyouwish,butkeepproportionsequal.
Add additional drops in even-numbered
combinations.)
3. With your fingers, blend this into the salt.335/901
4. Add this to a tub of running water.
5. When the bath has filled and the temperature is
correct,adjustthefragrance,ifyoulike,byadding
a few more drops of any of the essential oils dir-
ectly to the water.
Cleansing Oil
Sometimes cleansing means adding something rather than
removingit.ThisMediterraneanformulahasapurifyingef-
fect.Usingeitheressentialoilsorfreshherbsaddbasil,rose-
mary, and thyme to olive oil and massage this into the body.
Destroy All Evil Bath
1. Add at least one cup of Florida Water and at
least one cup of sea salt to a tub filled with water.
2. Add a generous splash of Four Thieves
Vinegar.
3. Justbeforeyouenterthewater,whenthetemper-
aturehasalreadybeenadjusted,addninedropsof
essential oil of rosemary.
Reinforceandenhancethebath’spotencybykeepingalarge
quartz crystal in the water while you bathe.336/901
Garlic Personal Vacuum Service
Sometimessomeoneelsereallyneedscleansing.Ifnegativity
emanatesconsistentlyfromasingleindividual,taintingthe
mood and atmosphere, take matters into your own hands:
performanindirectcleansing.Useacloveofgarlicasaper-
sonal vacuum cleaner.
1. Peel and crush a single clove of garlic.
2. Placeitundertheperson’sbed,chair,orunderthe
carpet where they are sure to stand.
3. Remove and burn after twenty-four hours.
4. Replace as needed; an improvement in attitude
should be observed shortly.
Herbal Magic Cleansing Bath
Make an infusion by pouring boiling water over fresh lav-
ender, mint, marjoram, oregano, and rosemary. Add the
strained liquid to your bath.
Kitchen Herb Bath
Magically powerful plants masquerade as common kitchen
herbs.Makeastronginfusionbypouringboilingwaterover
fennel, dill, and chervil and try adding it to your bathwater.337/901
Lavender Bath
Lavenderderivesitsnamefrom“lavare,”meaning“towash.”
Laundrycomesfromthesamerootsource.Thisbathmaybe
dedicated to Hecate, for whom lavender is a sacred plant.
Addessentialoiloflavender,lavenderhydrosol,oraninfu-
sion to the bath for spiritual as well as physical cleansing.
Mother Holle’s Cleansing Bath
Mother Holle, Germanic Queen of Witches, leads the Wild
Hunt. These herbs are traditionally gathered on Midsum-
mer’s Eve and used for intensive cleansings between the
winter solstice and January 6th.
Blend the following botanicals:
Avens
Chamomile
Elder
Elecampane
Heartsease
Mint
Mugwort
Mullein
Saint John’s Wort
Southernwood
Vervain
Yarrow
Makeaninfusionbypouringboilingwateroverthebotanic-
als. Let it steep, then strain and add to the bath. For338/901
maximum spiritual cleansing and happiness, float
heartsease (wild pansy) blossoms in the water.
Nine Flowers Bath
1. Place three white roses, three white carnations,
andthreewhiteliliesinadishandpourhotwater
over them.
2. Strain out the liquid, reserving the flowers, and
bring them to the bathtub or shower.
3. Scrubfromheadtofootwithonefloweratatime
until that flower falls apart.
4. When all nine flowers have been used, get out of
the water and air-dry.
5. Dressincleanclothes;don’tcleanthebathtubim-
mediately. Wait several hours or have someone
else do the job.
Personal Fumigation Spells
Personal fumigation means using directed smoke to spiritu-
allycleansethebodyandthepersonalaura.Thisisalsoavery
ancientmethodofapplyingperfume.Perfumeliterallymeans
“through smoke.”Although modern perfume is liquid, this is a
relatively recent development. For centuries, people stood
overburningaromaticmaterials,waftingitstrategically,hop-
ingtopermeateskin,hair,crevices,andclothingwithhealing,
protective, or seductive fragrances, as the case may be.
Most purifying botanicals also possess a protective as-
pect. Depending upon which botanicals are used, there may339/901
also be a sensual component. For all of their protective and
purifyingpowers,forinstance,sandalwoodandfrankincense
are also luxurious, fragrant, even aphrodisiac substances.
Cleansingscanbesensualratherthanmedicinalandstillbe
very effective, although this also depends upon personal ex-
pectations and preferences.
In ascending order of strength, try these methods:
• Have someone else cleanse you with a smudge
stickordirectedsmoke.Whitesage,desertsage,
frankincense and benzoin resin are particularly
effective
• Place the incense burner on the ground and
straddleit,directingthesmokeupwardsaround
the body. Kneel down and direct it over your
head. You need greater quantities of botanicals
for this to be truly effective
• You can also burn the incense in a small, closed
roomsuchasabathroom.Aftertheroomisper-
meatedwiththesmoke,getundressedandenter
the room so that you can bathe in the smoke
Purification Bath
1. Make a strong infusion by pouring boiling water
overninebaylaurelleavesandtwotablespoonsof
anise seeds.
2. Let it reach room temperature.
3. Strain out the botanicals and add the liquid to
your tub of water.340/901
Quick Fix Aura Cleanser
Addonecupofsaltandonecupofvinegartoabath.Lemon
vinegarismostpotent,howeverappleciderorricevinegar
is also very effective. Homemade Four Thieves Vinegar is
alsopowerfulandveryeffective,butitsfragranceispungent
rather than light and relaxing.
Rosemary Anisette Cleansing
Thispersonalcleansinginvokesthehealingpowersofmas-
sage.Someoneelsemustperformthiscleansingonyou.The
subject of the cleansing focuses on his or her goals or on
prayer and petition, while the other person performs the
massage.
1. Soak rosemary stalks in anisette.
2. The person to be cleansed lies down comfortably
on the floor, bed, or on a massage table.
3. The massage is initially performed only with the
hands:thisisagentle,easymassage,notavigor-
ous one. The goal is aura cleansing, not muscle
manipulation.
4. Withthefingers,repeatedlyandrhythmicallyform
the sign of the cross, pentacle, and/or other sac-
red,protectivesymbolsonthebody.Startwiththe
palm, and then journey up the arms. Go to the
soles of the feet and up the leg.
5. Remove the rosemary wands from the liqueur,
shake them out gently and use them to lightly
massage the body.341/901
6. Simultaneously request assistance from your fa-
vorite spirits. Order any evil entities to leave. Af-
firm your safety.
Sage Cleansing Spell
Plain garden sage is a profound spiritual cleanser.
1. Dry the sage.
2. Grind it into a fine powder with a mortar and
pestle.
3. Sprinklethepowderontoacharcoalanduseitto
fumigate the body.
Salt Cleansing Spells
Saltisthesinglemostpowerfulandconsistentauracleanser.
Seasalt,processedaslittleaspossible,ismostpowerful,al-
though many magical traditions, not necessarily Jewish,
prefer kosher salt, as it bears the aura of being blessed.
However,in extremis, any type of salt is effective.
Salt Cleansing Bath
This is a quick-fix cleansing, perfect for spontaneous needs:
1. Addatleastonecupofsalttoabathtubfilledwith
warm water.342/901
2. Soak thoroughly, allowing yourself to air-dry,
when the bath is over.
Salt Scrub
A salt scrub provides a more concentrated cleansing. For
maximumeffect,addbathsaltstothewaterandthenapply
the salt scrub directly to the body.
TheStandardSaltScrubformulaconsistsofablendof
approximatelyonecupofsaltandonehalfcupofoil.Theac-
tual quantity depends, however, upon the desired consist-
ency and the sensitivity of your skin: if you’d like a softer,
less abrasive scrub, increase the proportion of oil.
Becausesaltispurifyingandprotective,everysaltscrub
inherently provides aura cleansing. However, the purpose
andaddedeffectsofasaltscrubmaybeadjustedthroughthe
addition of essential oils. Rosemary, clary sage, frankin-
cense,manuka,benzoin,thymelinalool,andsandalwoodall
intensify the cleansing effect.
Seven Flowers Miracle Bath
Thisbathisidealforwhenyou’reverytired,veryjaded,very
drained,orverybitter.Sevendifferentfreshflowersarere-
quiredforthisbath,themagicnumberassociatedwithhope
and miracles. Choose whatever flowers are available or
whatever flowers appeal to you. Float the flowers in the
bathtubandsoakwhilefocusingonregaininginnocenceand
optimism.343/901
Seven Roses Bath
This spell requires:
Seven red roses
A handful of sea salt
A splash of vinegar
A squeeze of lemon juice
A splash of pure spring water or substitute a
splash of either Marie Laveau or Notre
Dame Water.
1. Fill the tub with water.
2. Throw all the ingredients into the tub.
3. Spendsevenminutesinthebath,rubbingyourself
with the roses, submerging yourself periodically
and focusing upon your goals.
4. Dry off with a clean towel, white or unbleached
cotton if possible, and put on fresh clothes.
5. Don’tcleanthetuboutrightaway;letitsitforat
least an hour while your aura cleansing stabilizes.
Seven Waves Ocean Cleansing
Immerseyourselfinoceanwaterstoachieveauracleansing.
When seven waves have passed over you, the cleansing is
complete.Death Spells
Deathspellsarenothexesnoraretheymeanttocausedeath.
Thereareno“killingcurses”here.Instead,“deathspells”asa
category revolves around the topic of death, death’s after-
math,anddeath’smagicaleffectonboththedepartedandthe
livingleftbehind.Althoughmagicalpractitionersmaybebur-
iedwiththeirritualtools,foravarietyofreasons,mosttypic-
ally death spells are spells for the living. Ghosts, vampires,
and other denizens of the next-world will have to discover
their own new repertoire of enchantment in the
Summerlands.
This was not always the case: ancient traditions from
EgyptandTibetforinstance required thatspellsandrituals
belearnedinlifesothattheycouldbeperformedafterdeath.
Thebooks,knowninEnglishasTheTibetanBookoftheDead
(TheBookoftheGreatLiberation)andtheEgyptianBookof
theDead:TheBookofGoingForthbyDay,recordthesetra-
ditions.Spiritualadeptstrainedforyears,sothattheywould
be prepared and show no fear when they finally faced their
after-lifeexaminations,sortofliketheapplicationprocessto
auniversitywithextremelytoughadmissionsstandards.(Al-
though eventually in Egypt this practice degenerated into
merely being able to present the appropriate spell or sacred
text.ThusthewealthywereburiedwithBooksoftheDeadas
amulets—or glorified hall passes!)
Thisisanotherofthosespellcategoriesthatfallalongthe
razor’s edge between religion, spirituality, and magic. Cast
thesespells(oradaptthem)astheycorrespondtoyourper-
sonal spiritual realities.345/901
Manyofthesespellsareextremelyancient,somanypresume
that preparations for the dead person will be conducted at
home,typicallybysomeonewhoiseitherfamiliarwiththede-
ceasedorfamiliarwithcorrectmagicalprocedure.However,
formodernpeopleinindustrializednations,deathisprimar-
ilyatopictobeavoidedatallcosts.Deathhasbecomeamys-
tery,tendedtobyprofessionals.Peoplenolongerdieathome:
theydieinhospitalsorhospices.Familiesandlovedonesno
longerpreparethebody:professionalswhiskawaythecorpse
and perform all functions discreetly away from the eyes of
loved ones left behind. It is perhaps the area where magical
culturesdivergemoststronglyfromsurroundingconventional
ones.Magicalculturesareconcerneddeeplywithpreparation
ofthebodyandthefuneralrites.Thisisanextremelyimport-
ant threshold; if errors are made, there are potentially dis-
astrous consequences for both living and dead:
• Incorrectorabsentfuneralritualleavesthesoul
ofthedeceasedvulnerabletocapturebyasorcer-
er who may use the soul as a tool for nefarious
endsorasawork-slave.Thisbeliefdatesbackat
leasttoancientBabylonandsurvivesinthedup-
pies of the West Indies
• Thespiritofthedeceased whocannot transition
properly to the next realm has nothing better to
dothanhangaroundthisrealmand,depending
upon their frustration level, make life miserable
fortheliving.Thisappliesparticularlytouniden-
tified homicide victims
• Inmanycultures,the“nextlife”meansbecoming
anancestorandservingandprotectingdescend-
ants.Ifproperburialritesaswellaslaterpropiti-
atory offerings aren’t available, neither is the346/901
potentialpowerofanancestor,leavingthedead
angry and frustrated and the living vulnerable
and unprotected
Death Spells
DeathSpiritsorSpiritsofDeathsoundsothreateningcom-
paredtoaHealingSpiritoraSpiritofLove.Thisisn’tmere
modern squeamishness but an attitude shared with the an-
cients.DeathSpirits,althoughtheyplayanecessaryfunction,
made our ancestors nervous, too.
Death Spirits tend to fall into one of two categories:
• Spiritswhoareinvolvedinthedyingprocessor
who serve to ease the transition to the next life
• Spirits who are guardians of the dead, who
presideovertherealmsofthedead,orwhorule
cemeteries and cremation grounds
ManySpiritGuardiansofDeath’sDoorsremainunnamed.As
withDiseaseSpirits,there’ssomereluctancetonamemanyof
them, just in case they actually come when called, thus epi-
thets and euphemisms are frequently substituted. Often, a
Death Spirit’s true name remains secret. Hades literally
means“theunseenone.”Shouldthatnamebecometoofamili-
ar, other euphemisms may be substituted: Polydegmon
means“thehospitableone”because,afterall,everyoneiswel-
comeinhisrealm.Plutonmeans“wealth,”becauseultimately
he owns everyone and everything.
Despite the fear they instill, these spirits can be very
needed, helpful, and welcome—at the right moment, of347/901
course.Theirassistanceisincorporatedintomanyspellsfora
variety of reasons and purposes.
Guardians of the next world and of the cemetery gates
include:
• BaronSamedi,leaderoftheVodounGhedespir-
its, and his consort, La Grande Brigitte
• Dongyue Dadi, Lord of Tai Shan (China)
• Erishkigal/Lamashtu (Mesopotamia)
• Hades, Persephone (Greece)
• Hella (Norse)
• Kali, Shiva, Yama (Hindu)
• Mictlantecutli and Mictecacuiuatl (Aztec Lord
and Lady of the Dead)
• Osiris (Egypt)
• Oya (Yoruba)
• Yambe Akka (Saami)
Appeal to these guardian spirits to protect the souls of the
dead,andalsotomaintaincontroloverthesoulsofthedead,
keepingtheminline,sotospeak.Petitionthemalsoforac-
cess to the spiritsof the dead, should this be desired.
Psychopomps
Psychopompmeans“conductorofsouls”inGreek.Theterm
referstoaspecifictypeofspirit,entrustedwithaspecifictype
of function. These are the spirit guides who lead the soul
between the lands of the living and the dead. (In addition,
they sponsor, protect, and guide shamans who journey back
and forth between the realms.) You will recognize them in
your dreams or waking visions by the attributes they carry;348/901
traditional emblems for this class of spirits include a key, a
cutting instrument, and/or a torch. Culso, an Etruscan psy-
chopomp,forinstance,awaitsthearrivalofallsouls.Hecar-
riesscissorsinonehandtosevertieswiththerealmoftheliv-
ing and a bright flaming torch to light the way toward new
adventures.
Psychopomps include:
• Angels:Gabriel,Azrael,andtheunnamed“Angel
of Death” (Jewish)
• Anubis, Hathor, Wepwawet (Egypt)
• BaronSamedi,BaronLaCroixandBaronCimit-
iere (Vodoun)
• Culso (Etruscan)
• Freya and the Valkyries (Norse)
• Giltine (Lithuania)
• Hecate, Hermes (Greece)
• Jizo (Japan)
• Mother Holle (German)
Animals serve as psychopomps, too. The most famous are
dogs, jackals, and other canines. Many spirit psychopomps
manifestintheseforms.TheseincludeAnubisandKali(jack-
als),Hecate(dog),andWepwawet(wolf).Otheranimalpsy-
chopomps include butterflies, snakes, and birds, especially
ravens, crows, hornbills, and frigates. It is considered ex-
tremelyauspiciousifanyofthesecreaturesmakeaspontan-
eousappearanceatafuneralorsimilarpost-deathrites.This
indicatesthattheescortserviceforthesoulhasarrivedandis
intended to comfort and reassure the living.
Psychopomps may be petitioned to ease the travails of
the dying, by the dying person or their loved ones alike.349/901
Angel of Death Intervention Spell
Foiltheangelofdeathbychangingaperson’sname!Death
angels in Jewish tradition, similar to Chinese death spirits,
possessabureaucraticnature.Instructionsmustbefollowed
to a “t,” thus they come prepared with a magical warrant
namingthespecificpersonwhosesoulisscheduledforhar-
vest.(It’sbelieveddangeroustohavetoomanypeople—like
more than one—bearing the same name in one family. The
AngelofDeathmightgetconfusedandtaketheyouthfulone
instead of the aged.)
1. In case of life-threatening illness, should a visit
from the Angel of Death genuinely be feared,
change the afflicted person’s name. Traditional
choicesareRaphaelforaboy,interpretedtomean
“TheCreatorheals,”orEveforagirl,whichliter-
ally means “life.” Other options are names of an-
imals,especially“Bear,”“Lion,”or“Wolf”because
these creatures are perceived as holding onto life
particularly fiercely and tenaciously.
2. Should the illness and threat of death abate, it’s
consideredwisetomaintainthenewnames,even
changingnameslegally,ontheoffchancethatthe
Angel is still searching.350/901
Baron Samedi’s Appeal for Life
Spell
Therearemanymagicspellsforhealingillness.Fromacer-
tainperspectivethesemaybeunderstoodasspellsthatindir-
ectly seek to prevent or forestall death. There are very few
spells,however,thatopenlyanddirectlytargetpreventionof
death, perhaps because most magical philosophies under-
stand death as part of the process of life.
Inanemergency,however,arareexceptionisanappeal
toBaronSamedi.TheGhedearetheVodounspiritsofdeath
and the guardians of the cemetery. They control the cross-
roadsbetweenlifeanddeath.BaronSamediistheirleader,
ownerofthemetaphoricandliteralcemetery;ultimatelyno
onecandieifBaronSamedirefusesto“digthegrave.”You’ll
havetohaveaverygoodexplanationofwhyalifemustbe
spared,howeverBaronSamedihasbeenknowntobesym-
pathetic to appeals made on behalf of dying children.
1. OfferBaronSamediapieceofdrytoast,acupof
black coffee, and some dry roasted peanuts. He
drinks rum in which 21 very hot peppers have
been steeped. Cigarettes and cigars are appreci-
ated as well.
2. GivetheBaronapairofblacksunglasses,withone
lenspoppedout,demonstratingthathecanseein
twoworlds,therealmsofthedeadandtheliving.
(Once you’ve given the gift, they’re his; don’t put
them on afterwards.)
3. Setupanaltar,makeyourofferingandstarttalk-
ing,explicitly,respectfully,andfranklyaboutwhat351/901
youneedandwhatwillbeofferedinexchangefor
a miracle.
Brigitte’s Appeal for Life Spell
Ifyouperceivethatawomanmaybemoresympathetic,ap-
pealsmayalsobemadetoLaGrandeBrigitte,MamanBri-
gitte, Baron Samedi’s Scottish-born wife. She co-owns the
cemetery with the Baron.
1. OfferLaGrandeBrigitteninepurpleeggplantsto-
gether with a glass of red wine.
2. Ifpossible,setupherofferingbythecentralcross
inacemeteryorunderawilloworelmtree.Given
thechoice,themostauspiciousdaytopetitionher
is on a Wednesday.
3. LightawhiteorpurplecandleforMamanBrigitte,
make your appeal, and explain why it should be
considered.
Burial Protection Spell
Drive or carry the deceased around the cemetery sunwise
(eitheroneorthreetimesisrecommended)beforeburial,for
protection and luck during the next journey.352/901
Epidemic Lock and Key Spell
There’s only so much one family should have to bear;
however, epidemics are greedy and know no boundaries.
Thisspellcanonlybeperformedafteratleastonememberof
afamilyhassuccumbedtoanepidemic.Itmustbecastdur-
ingthatperson’sburialinanattempttoprotectothermem-
bersoftheimmediatefamily.Someoneinthefamilycaststhe
spell.
1. Lock a padlock while focusing on your desired
goal.
2. Throwtheclosedpadlockintothegravesothatno
furthermembersofthefamilywillfollowthede-
ceased into the grave.
3. Bury the padlock under Earth together with the
coffin.Itmustnotberemovedunderanycircum-
stances, nor ever opened.
4. If there is a key, put it in a small bag filled with
stonesanddropitintoariver,arrivingandleaving
via a circuitous route, without looking back.
Escort Service to the Beyond Spell
(1) Tarot Card
Torequestthissortofescortservice,eitherforyourselfdur-
ingthedyingprocessorforalovedoneimmediatelyfollow-
ingdeath,removetheMooncardfromaRider-Waitetarot
deck or a thematically similar deck.353/901
1. Placeitwhereyoucanmeditateontheimage.The
two canines are the awaiting psychopomps; the
craborlobsteristhesoulbeginningitsnext,long
journey.
2. Trytogointothecard,jumpinsideandseewhat
happens.Practicejumpinginandoutofthecard;
it’s important to the success of the ritual that
you’re confident that you can emerge safely. The
subjectofdeathisamysteryandsotosomeextent
is this spell.
3. Enter the card and see what assistance you can
bring back with you.
Escort Service to the Beyond Spell
(2) Spirit Intervention
If,foranyreason,thesoulofthedeceasedseemstobelinger-
ingordoesn’tseemtobeinahurrytomakethenextjourney,
appealtooneofthepsychopompstoprovideanimmediate
pick-up service. Any of the spirits may be petitioned, al-
though one dear to the deceased would be the kindest choice.
If you’re unsure what to do, burn white candles and
provide one of the fragrances that call in spirits best: ben-
zoin,cinnamon,frankincense,orsandalwood.Callthespirit
bynameandrequestthatitcomestocollecttherecalcitrant
soul quickly.354/901
Fiery Ring of Protection
1. Until funeral rites occur, maintain lit candles
around the body to create a fiery wall of
protection.
2. Irishtraditiondesignatesadozencandlessteadily
burning;othertraditionssuggesttwo(oneeachat
headandfoot),four(markingthebody’scardinal
points), or as many as can be squeezed around.
3. Light a new candle, every time one burns out.
Guardian of the Dead Spell: Osiris
Osiris, Lord of the Dead, presides over the Western Lands,
the ancient Egyptian after-life. He may be petitioned to
guard the soul of a loved one. Burn frankincense and gum
arabica in Osiris’ honor; light black and green candles.
Osiris accepts offerings of spring water, flowers, and grain.
Iris Spell
PopularGreekmythologyindicatesthatIriswasamessen-
ger for the Olympian spirits until she was supplanted by
Hermes.Irishadotherroles,too:sheservedaspsychopomp
for women’s shades. Plant purple irises on women’s graves
to ensure Iris’ help and blessing.355/901
Funeral Cleansing Spells
Onceuponatime,thefirstmagicspelloneencountered,im-
mediatelyafterbirth,wasanenchantedcleansingbath.One’s
finalEarthlymagicalactivity(atleastinthisbody)wassimil-
arlyamagicalbath.Justaschildbirthritualsfrequentlyincor-
porate cleansing spells (specifically, cleansing baths), so last
ritesusuallyincorporatedamagical/spiritualcleansingbath.
The body is bathed, typically with spiritually cleansing, pro-
tective materials. Incense may also be burnt to cleanse and
comfort.
Chervil Incense
Chervil, also known as Sweet Cicely or British myrrh, was
amongtheancientEgyptianfuneraryherbs.Remainsofthe
herbwerefoundwithinTutankhamun’stomb.Burnthedried
herb as incense to comfort the bereaved and also to enable
them to contact the deceased if desired.
Copal Incense
Copal is traditionally burned during Mexican Day of the
Dead rituals but it may be used anytime. Its fragrance al-
legedlypleases,pacifies,andhonorsthosewhohavepassed
on, while protecting and cleansing the living at the same
time.356/901
Funeral Garland (1)
Thisgarlandoffersimmediatecomfortandspiritualcleans-
ing.Eachtearischargedwithblessingsandmaybeburned
atalaterstageforprotectionorinattemptstocontactthe
deceased.Piercetearsoffrankincenseandmyrrhandstring
onto thread. Give the garlands to funeral attendees to take
home as a talisman to burn as needed.
Funeral Garland (2)
Pierceclovesandstringthemontoanecklace.Wearorhang
to comfort the bereaved.
Hyacinth Spell
Fill the home with fresh hyacinths to comfort the bereaved
and assuage their grief.
Jasmine Incense
Burnjasmineincensetoprotectandpurify,comfortthebe-
reaved, and honor the deceased.357/901
Ocean Cleansing Spell
Lifeemergesfromsaltwater,bothmetaphoricallyspeaking
and literally. Each person begins their Earthly incarnation
swimmingintheirmother’ssaltyamnioticfluid.Oceanwa-
ter is also used to signal rebirth in the next realm.
Gather ocean water; add essential oil of lavender and
bathethedeceased’sbodywiththisliquid.Ifrealoceanwa-
terisimpossibleforyoutoget,placeasmuchsaltinspring
water as possible, preferably Dead Sea salt, and use this
instead.
White Sage
Burnwhitesagetocomfortthebereavedandtoprovidesim-
ultaneous spiritual cleansing.
Funerary Preparation Spell (1)
Create an infusion by pouring boiling water over myrtle,
mugwort, and rue. Use this liquid to bathe the body.
Funerary Preparation Spell (2)
Place a fresh sprig of basil over the deceased’s chest to
provide safe passage to the next realm.358/901
Funerary Preparation Spell (3)
Placefreshrosemaryinthedeceased’shands,forprotection
against any coming dangers.
Funeral Protective Spell
Amuletsandtravel-charmsmaybesentalongforthejour-
ney, for luck and protection, as exemplified by the ancient
Egyptianswhofilledthetombsofthewealthywitheveryob-
jectneededtomaintainthelifestyletowhichthedeadperson
wasaccustomed,includingmagicalmodelsofpeopletoserve
themanddotheirbiddinginthenextlife.Eventhepoorest
person, however, was buried with basic protective amulets
andaneye-makeuppalette,necessaryformagicaswellas
maintaining appearances.
The Egyptians cultivated a magical science of amulets
and talismans for a variety of purposes. There were over
thirty styles of funerary amulet alone. These included:
• Djed amulets (Pillar of Osiris)
• Eyes of Horus
• Scarabs
• Tet amulets (Buckle of Isis)
• Vulture-shaped amulets359/901
Ghost Prevention Spell
1. Immediately following a death, brew substantial
quantitiesofbayberry(Myricacerifera)tea,inor-
dertofollowaSeminolerecommendationtopre-
vent ghosts.
2. Family and friends of the deceased should drink
this tea, as well as bathing their heads and arms
with it for three days following the death.
Hair Girdle Spell
Itiscustomaryinmanytraditionstoremovealockofthede-
ceased’shairasakeepsakeormemento.AnAustralianab-
original custom suggests the metaphysical origins of this
tradition.Thinkof“girdle”intermsofamagicbeltor“gird-
ing your loins,” rather than as a figureshaping
undergarment.
1. When a man dies, his hair is cut off by a male
relative.
2. It’s woven into a belt and presented to the de-
ceased’seldestson.Wearingthismagicbelttrans-
mitsallthepositivemasculinequalitiesofthede-
ceased and enhances the wearer’s psychic skills.360/901
Madame Death Spell
CentralEurope’sMadameDeathisauniquespirit.Whenshe
arrives,sheactuallyteachesyouhowtodie,demonstrating
howtodoit,andthenservesasescortduringthetransition.
Ifit’stimetocontacther,lookforMadameDeathsittingat
thecrossroadsorinappleandpeartrees.It’sunnecessaryto
bringhergiftsorofferings,andyoucan’tseeheruntilshe’s
ready to see you.
Passport to Death
In many disparate magic and spiritual traditions, a tattoo
servesasthepassporttothenextworld.Thetattooservesas
anidentifyingmarkforthepsychopompandgainsonead-
mittance to the afterlife, in the sort of way some clubs and
museumsstampone’shandwhenallowedentrance.It’sbe-
lievedthatthisreasonwasamongtheinitialstimuliforthe
concept of permanently tattooing the body.
Thistattooisappliedwhenoneisstillliving,usuallyon
the hand or inner wrist. Geometric patterns are typical;
however, consider what your passport should look like. If
you’re not sure but would like one, turn to the Divination
Spells to help you determine what sign is needed.361/901
Petrified Wood Past-Life
Spells
Pieces of petrified wood are typically sold alongside crystal
gemstones.Likecrystalgemstones,they’rebelievedtoretain
memory and are used to help access those buried within you.
Petrified Wood Past-Life Spell
Holdapieceofpetrifiedwoodinyourhandduringconscious
attempts at past-life regression.
Sandalwood
Burn sandalwood to stimulate past-life recall.
Wisteria Past-Life Spell
Hang wisteria over your bed to access past-life memories
while you sleep.
Following removal of the body, it’s recommended that any
rooms where it was kept be swept out completely.362/901
Post-Death Cleansing Spell
1. Sweep the house thoroughly using a single-use
ritual broom or any other broom that you’re not
sorry to lose.
2. Disposeofanydustanddebrisoutsidethehouse,
ideally by burning.
3. Dispose of the broom immediately, outside the
home,preferablyatacrossroadsunless,ofcourse,
you’dlikereturnvisits;thenkeepthebroomasa
summoning device.
Rest in Peace Aloe Vera Spell
Plant aloe vera on the gravesite in order to soothe the de-
ceased, ease any sense of loneliness or abandonment, and
prevent their longing for the living.
Rest in Peace Chamomile Spell
Acarpetofchamomileplantedoveragraveencouragesthe
dead to sleep and also eases their passage to the next realm.
Rest in Peace Floral Spell
Covergraveswithacarpetofdaisiesandbluebellstobring
peacetothedeceasedandjoytothebereaved,andtoinvite
the presence of benevolent guardian spirits.363/901
Rest in Peace Juniper Spell
Burn juniper berries at the gravesite during the funeral to
ward off any malicious or mischievous spirits.
Rest in Peace Ghost Prevention
Spell
Driveironarrowheadsintothegroundatthefootandhead
ofthedeceased’sbodytopreventtheformationandreturnof
a ghost.
Rest in Peace Sleep Well Spell
Toencouragethedeadtosleeppeacefullyanddeeply,strew
wild poppy seeds throughout the cemetery.
Rest in Peace Final Amends Spell
Ideallyonehastheopportunitytosayafinalfarewelltothe
deceased and depart on good terms. This is not, unfortu-
nately, always the case. This can stimulate great pain and
regretfortheoneleftbehind.AccordingtoaRomanytradi-
tion,however,it’snevertoolatetomakeamends.Thisspell
shouldrelieveyourheartandalsoforestallanypossibledif-
ficulties with a testy, still-resentful ghost.364/901
1. Go to the grave.
2. Offeralibationofspringwaterorwhateverwould
be the beverage of choice. A small gift of some
kind might not be a bad idea either.
3. Talk to the person. Be frank and familiar. The
standard speech goes something like this:
I forgive you. Don’t harm me, don’t haunt me.
Ibehavedbadlytowardyou[orspecifythesitu-
ation]
Please forgive me. I forgive you.
Ideally a response is received shortly, in dreams if not in
waking life.
Rest in Peace Food of the Dead
Spell
Althoughit’scustomaryinmanytraditionstospendtimeat
the gravesite, cleaning, caring, and sometimes bringing of-
feringsoffoodanddrink,amoredirectmethodwasusedin
ancient Greece.
Createablendofoliveoil,honey,andspringwater.This
maybepoureddirectlyontothegrave,orpouredthrougha
tube into the grave. Meanwhile, the living should picnic
nearby.365/901
Rest in Peace Tansy Eternal Life
Spell
Tansyisdescribedasanherboflifeeverlasting.Itallegedly
comfortsthebereavedwhileassuringthedeadthattheywill
notbeforgotten. Sprinkle ocean water orHolyWater over
the deceased’s body using a tansy branch as an asperging
tool.
Ghosts
The understanding of what constitutes a ghost depends
largelyonwhatonebelieveshappenstothesoulafterdeath
or, in fact, on how one views the soul during life.
Todiscussthehumansoulassingularcontradictsmany
metaphysicalbeliefs.Manybelievethateachpersonhasmul-
tiplesouls,eachwithaspecialfunction.Thusthedreamsoul
travelsandwanders,whenreleasedbysleep.Perhapsoneof
these souls or facets of the soul lingers on Earth after death.
Perceptionsofsoulsandwhathappenstothemfollowing
deathvaryaccordingtospiritualtraditionandindividualbe-
lief.Asoneexample,intraditionalHmongbelief,thesoulex-
istsasakindoftrinity:onepartstandsguardatthegrave,an-
otherjourneystotherealmofthedead,whileathirdpartis
subject to reincarnation.
In traditions that revere and communicate with ancest-
ors,deathformsadifferentkindofcrossroads:willthesoul
takeapositiveturnandaccepttheresponsibilitiesofanan-
cestral spirit or will it transform into a ghost? If it does366/901
transformintoaghost,willthisbeahelpful,benevolentorat
leastunobtrusive,quietghostcontenttolingerneartheliving,
or will it transform into a malevolent, spiteful, resentful,
mischievous, trouble-making ghost?
Theroadtakenatthatcrossroadsmaydependontheac-
tions of the living: were proper funeral rites given? Was the
bodytreatedwithrespectandcare?Wereanyneededspiritu-
al precautions offered?
Amongmanytraditionalphilosophies,thosewhodievi-
olently far from home or whose funerals and/or graves are
neglected have the capacity to evolve into wandering semi-
malevolent ghosts or worse.
It is never too late to lay a ghost, however, and many
ritualsexistworldwideforpropitiatingthosewhowerelaidto
restwithoutproperrites.Forexample,theFestivalofHungry
Ghosts: during the seventh month of the Chinese lunar
candle,paperofferingsareburnedforone’sownpersonalan-
cestors.However,extraofferingsmaybegiventoplacateany
hungry,wanderingghosts.InMexico,November2nd,theDay
of the Dead, is a national holiday. Families congregate in
cemeteries, visiting loved ones, repairing and caring for
graves.Inadditiontoofferingsmadeforancestorsandrelat-
ives,manyaddcandlesforforgottensouls,thosewhohaveno
onetowelcomeandcareforthem.Thesecandles,withaddi-
tionalofferings,maybeplacedonthefamilyaltarorasinde-
pendent offerings by the roadside, for passing ghosts.
If a ghost isn’t causing trouble, how do you know it’s
there?
• Candlesthatburndim,low,orbluemayindicate
the presence of a ghost
• An unexpected chill in the air may indicate a
ghost367/901
A frequent observation is that the presence of
ghosts is indicated by a significant decrease in
temperature—a cold spot
• Ghostsmaysignaltheirpresencethroughspecific
fragrance, a sort of aromatic calling card
Peaceful,mutuallybeneficialcoexistencemaynotrequireany
spells.Manyhomesfeaturethepresenceofaghostwhowants
nothingmorethantolingerinthepresenceoflovedones.If
theghostisn’tbotheringyou,thereisgenerallynoneedtoex-
orciseit;actionstodosomayinfactantagonizetheghostand
cause trouble.
There are basically two types of ghost spells:
• Spells to provide protection from troublesome
ghosts and keep them far away
• Spells to obtain access to ghosts and their powers
Samhain Hungry Ghost Spell
Samhain,theCelticrootsofHalloween,marksthebeginning
ofthedark,incubatoryhalfoftheyear.It’salsothemoment
when the veils between the realms of living and dead are
sheerest.Thusit’sthetimearoundtheworldtocontactone’s
ancestors,paytributeandhonortothem,andengageinnec-
romanticpracticesofvariouskinds.Hungryghostsarealso
believed toabound—those withoutfamilyorfriends tofeed
and remember them.
Place offerings of milk and barley outside under the
starstoeasetheghosts’hunger,preventtheirmischief,and
to accrue their blessings.368/901
Boneset Ghost Spell
Bonesetguidesghostselsewhere,attractingprotective,bene-
volent spirits instead. Boneset may also be used to protect
people and animals from “ghost sickness,” the illness that
some believe may emerge after extended contact with the
dead.Themostpotentbonesetisfoundgrowingonornear
graves. Supplement it with white pine for added
enhancement.
Hang fresh boneset branches over doorways, or burn
young boneset branches and twigs within a cauldron to
drive away existing ghosts.
Get Away Ghost Spell Backwards
Candles
1. Light a white candle after dark.
2. Carryitinyourrighthandwhileholdingahandful
of salt in your left.
3. Walk backwards through every room of the
hauntedhousefrombottomtotop,sprinklingsalt
throughyourfingers.(Keepadditionalsaltinyour
pockets for refills if your house is large: do not
backtrack.) Simultaneously tell the ghosts to get
lost, aloud or silently as you deem appropriate.
4. Atthetopmost,furthestpointofthehome,extin-
guish the candle.369/901
Get Away Ghost Bean Spell
Scatterbeansaroundyourpropertytodenyentrytoghosts
for a year. (If plants result, this banishing effect may last
even longer!)
Get Away Ghost Coffee Spell
Tell those ghosts to wake up, smell the coffee, and leave!
Burninggroundcoffee(ratherthanbrewingit,althoughyou
cantrythat,too,havingacupintheprocess)allegedlyre-
pels ghosts as well as malevolent spiritual entities. It’s im-
portant to use real ground coffee, the stronger the better,
and especially not decaffeinated.
Get Away Ghost Pine Trees
AccordingtoHildegardofBingen,ghostshatepinetreesand
avoidplaceswheretheygrow.Ifit’snotpossibletosurround
yourhomewithlivingpines,bringsmalllivingtreeswithin
itandsituatethemstrategically.Decoratewithimagesthat
resonate strongly of life: ankhs, hexagrams, and imagery
(abstract orotherwise) depicting human genitalia. (Incase
youweren’tsurewhattodowiththatThaipenisamulet,this
is the perfect opportunity.) This allegedly drives away the
ghost, or at least makes it feel extremely unwelcome.370/901
Get Away Ghost Tiger Lilies
Tiger lilies planted near doors and windows allegedly pre-
vent the entry of ghosts.
Get Out Ghost!
Iftheghosthastakenupresidenceinyourhomeorwithin
another building, hanging alyssum up in every corner of a
house will allegedly exorcise it.
Ghost Co-existence Spell (1) Lilies
Doyouhaveghosts?Can’tgetridofthem,nomatterwhat
youdo?Keepliliesinyourhomeandgarden.Theywon’tre-
pelghostsorbanishthembuttheywillkeeptheghostswell
behaved, preventing them from causing harm or mischief.
Ghost Co-existence Spell (2)
Incense
Keepghostshappyandgoodnaturedbymaintainingthefra-
grance of benzoin and sandalwood in the home.371/901
Ghost Keep Away Spell Don’t Cross
that Line, Ghost!
Createaboundarylineoverwhichghostsallegedlywillnot
cross.
1. Place three peeled cloves of garlic in a bowl, to-
getherwithonehandfulofseasaltandonehand-
ful of fresh rosemary leaves.
2. Grind and mash the ingredients together.
3. Sprinkle them to create a boundary, as needed.
Ghost and Poltergeist Protection
Spell
To provide relief from destructive and mischievous ghosts
and poltergeists:
1. Maintain fresh bay laurel branches and/or leaves
within the home.
2. Replace them as their green color fades.
Haunted House Prevention Spell
Anti-Ghost Garden
Ghosts may be prevented from haunting houses by sur-
roundingthehomewithspecificbotanicals.Createananti-372/901
ghost garden by maintaining a substantial quantity of bay
laurel trees, rowan (mountain ash) trees, and lilies.
Pacify Ghost Halloween Spell
AtmidnightonHalloweenburyapplesatcrossroadstofeed
hungry ghosts.
Rest in Peace Spell (1) The
Unknown Ghost
AnancientGreekmethodtolayaghosttorestisespecially
beneficial ifnotonlytheidentitybutalsothegender ofthe
ghost is unknown.
1. Makedistinctlymaleandfemaledollsfromwood
or true earthen clay (not synthetic substitutes as
typicallyfoundamongartsupplies).It’scrucialto
the success of this spell that the dolls be formed
frombiodegradablematerials,sothattheycande-
compose entirely without leaving traces.
2. Givethedollsafeast,apartyintheirhonor.Have
real food and drink, real fun.
3. Whentheparty’sover,explainthattheirwander-
ingsareover,too.Burytheminuncultivatedland,
wheretheyareunlikelytobedisturbedforalong
time.373/901
Rest in Peace Spell (2) The Proper
Send Off
Restlessghostsmaybelaidtorestbygivingthemtheproper
funeral they may never have had.
1. Place a small doll in a tiny coffin.
2. Have a great send-off.
3. Bury the coffin in a remote area or even in a
cemetery itself.Dream Spells
It’sonlyadream,somesay,implyingthatsomethingiseph-
emeral, unreal, unworthy of attention. Those subscribing to
that notion are not occultists. For the spell-caster, nothing
holdsmoresignificancethanadream.Dreamsareyourpass-
porttomagicalrealmsandthetickettoyourownpower.Be-
cause dreams come naturally doesn’t mean that dreaming
isn’t also a skill that can be learned and enhanced. From a
magicalperspective,dreamingisn’tapassivestate.Dreaming
isaprimaryactivityofthesoul.Dreamsaren’tsomethingthat
happenstous;dreamingissomethingwedo.Magicspellsen-
courage you to consciously guide and control the dream
process.
Dreams are how we most frequently receive commu-
niqués from other realms. Spiritual entities communicate in
dreams, as do guardian angels, animal allies, ancestral pro-
tectors,andthosewhohavedeparted.Dreamsarewherewe
receiveresponsestopetitions;wherewereceivetheanswers
to oracles. Spells are cast in dreams, healing occurs,
spontaneouspast-liferegressionsandvisionsofthefutureare
achieved. Dreams replenish our psychic ability and
strengthen our personal power.
Duringthedreamstate,divisionsbetweenpsychicknow-
ledgeandconventionalwisdomgrowthinorevendisappear.
Psychicreceptivityincreases.Withoutdreamspsychicpower
isminimizedorevencurtailed,physicalhealthsuffers;weare
cut off from needed spiritual advice and intervention.
Everyonedreams.Likearunningcinematicprogram,the
average person with sufficient sleep has approximately five
dreamseverynight.Thelastdream,theonethatoccursjustat375/901
thethresholdofawakeningisusuallythemostspirituallyand
magically significant.
Youobject:you’resureyoudon’thaveanydreamsatall,
let alone a series of five.
Mostlikelyyou’rewrong.Fewofustrulydon’tdream,al-
though it’s very common not to remember dreams. Some
people, unfortunately, only remember unpleasant dreams,
leadingtonegativeassociationsandfearofsleep.Thisfear,as
well as trauma and stress, sometimes result in dream
suppression.
True failure to dream frequently derives from chronic
lackofsleep,orsometimesfrommedication,especially,iron-
ically, medication taken to enhance sleep. That irony is
furthered when one considers the possibility that the whole
functionofsleepmayexistsothatdreamingoccurs.Inother
words,it’snotsleepdeprivationthat’spotentiallyaproblem;
it’sdream deprivation.
Because dreams are so crucial to the magic process, an
occult science has evolved to control, nurture, and enhance
dreaming. If you think you don’t have dreams, there are
botanicals that will coax them out of the shadows. You can
producethedreamsyouneedanddesire,teachyourselftore-
callyourdreams,andreceivevisitationsfromdesiredpersons
andspiritsalike.Youcancontrolandunderstandnightmares
so that they no longer plague you.
What actually happens during dreams?
Although there are various scientific explanations, ac-
cordingtomanyspiritual/magicaltraditions,eachpersonhas
not one but multiple souls, including a distinct dream soul
thatcanjourneyduringdreamsandhavetrueexperiencesbe-
forereturningtothebodywhenitawakens.Thedreamsoul
thensleepswhenthebodyisawake.Thisdreamsoulcanpur-
sue information, journey to other realms, rendezvous with376/901
other dream souls, and have magical adventures impossible
whenawake.Whathappensindreams,thus,reallyoccurs,at
least in that special realm, Dreamland.
Dreamsserveasthebridgebetweendaytimerealityand
Dreamland, offering information to assist us during waking
hours, to improve life, and provide protection.
Dreams cannot always be taken literally: they are fluid,
hallucinatory,fullofsecretcodes,privatelanguages,andin-
nerjokes.Dreamscanbeoverwhelminglyjoyousandecstatic.
There are those whose most transcendent sexual, spiritual,
creative,andmagicalexperiencesoccurindreams.Iplaythe
pianobeautifullyindreams—anabilityIcannotreproducein
waking life.
Dreams can also be a source of terror: horrible things
happen in dreams, worst nightmares and deepest fears are
realized. Suppressed memories emerge—or are they just
dreams?Lovedonesturnintoenemiesindreams;weengage
in behavior we would never countenance while awake.
TheTalmudstatesthat,“Anuninterpreteddreamislike
anunreadletter.”Accordingtogeneralworldwidemetaphys-
ical wisdom, dreams may be harbingers oromens; however,
theyrarely,ifever,castasentenceofinevitabledoom.Instead
dreamscarrywarnings,messagesofprotectionfromwatchful
ancestors and guardian spirits that must be interpreted cor-
rectly in order to avert danger and disaster. Looked at from
thisperspective,evenabaddreammaybewelcomed;cluesin
dreamsoftenindicateyourbestattempttofixorpreemptan
unhappysituation.Nightmaressignalsomesortofimbalance
orelseapotentiallydangeroussituation,ofvaryingdegrees:
usuallyimbeddedinthenightmarearecluesforpreventingor
remedying disaster, as opposed to submission to the
inevitable.377/901
Dream Spells
According to the Talmud, three kinds of dreams come true:
• The dream in the morning
• The dream that someone else has about you
• The dream that is interpreted by another dream
Spell-casters’ Dream Tools:
Mugwort
Ifanalarmclockisadream’sworstenemy,thenmugwortisa
dream’s best friend. Mugwort is a member of the Artemisia
family, botanicals named in honor of the Greek lunar deity
Artemis. Artemis protects women, wild nature of all kinds,
fertilityandcreativity,witchcraft,magic,andpsychicability.
Nootherplanthasmorepowerfulassociationswithmagicin
general and dreams in particular.
Mugwort doesn’t give you psychic ability; instead it un-
earths what’s hidden within you and drags it, kicking and
screamingifnecessary,tothesurface.Mugwortisnotagentle
plant.Itisnotforeveryone,foravarietyofreasons.Mugwort
shouldnotbeusedbypregnantwomenorthoseactivelyat-
tempting to become pregnant. A traditional medicinal herb
for stimulating menstruation, mugwort may cause violent
uterinecontractions.Norisitforchildren’suse.Childrentyp-
ically produce vividenough dreams, without further
stimulation.378/901
Mugwort doesn’t produce dreams for you; instead it
flings open the gates to Dreamland. Even if you swear you
neverdream,mugwortwillverylikelystimulatetheprocess.
Mostcommercialherbaldreamteas,baths,andproductscon-
tain mostly mugwort. Other ingredients are required, not to
enhance mugwort’s magic powers, but to make it palatable.
Likeitsclosecousin,wormwood,mugwortisamongtheori-
ginal bitter herbs.
Mugwortstimulatestheproductionofdreams.Italsoen-
hances clarity, vividness, and your ability to remember
dreams.Inaddition,dreamsallegedlylingerlonger:youmay
receivealittleextratimetoholdontothedreamandrecordit.
Because mugwort simultaneously enhances and stimulates
psychicpower,yourabilitytounderstanddreamsmayalsobe
enhanced.Mugwortalsoprovidesspiritualprotectionduring
dreams,encouragingactsofbraveryanddaringyoumightnot
otherwise attempt.
Despitethesebenefits,noteveryonelikesmugwort.Some
find dreams produced under its influence too vivid, too in-
tense,ortoofrequent.Somecomplainthatallthatdreaming
preventsagoodnight’ssleep!Experimentandtestyourper-
sonal reactions. Mugwort may be most valuable for jump-
startingthedreamprocess:apsychicenhancementtobeused
only as needed.
Mugwort,asistrueformanyplants,isavailableinavari-
ety of forms. Even more than for most other plants, these
forms are not interchangeable. In other words, the flower
remedy, dried herb, and essential oil all produce different
effects.
• Essentialoilofmugwort,alsomarketedunderits
French name, “Armoise,” is not safe for use by
anyone. Mugwort’s chemical constituents are379/901
morehighlyconcentratedintheessentialoilthan
in any other form: it is potentially neurotoxic
• Thedriedbotanicalherbissafeinmoderationfor
most people, other than pregnant and nursing
women, women actively attempting to conceive,
and children. A general rule of thumb for mug-
wort, long considered to be a woman’s herb, is
that if you’re not old enough to menstruate, you
arenotoldenoughformugwort.Thedriedherb
isusedinteas,baths,herbalpillows,andvarious
spells. An infused oil may be made from its
blossoms
• Livingmugwortplantsareapowerfuldreamand
magic ally. Mugwort, which grows rampant on
wasteland,isnotnecessarilyaneasyplanttocul-
tivate,justlikeitsnamesakegoddess.Ifitgrows
for you, this indicates the plant’s willingness to
work magic with you and to encourage your
psychic powers. Mugwort may be grown from
seed; however, it is best propagated by taking
cuttingsorbyrootdivisioninthefall.Surround
your house with it; grow mugwort in pots in-
doors. A witch’s garden isn’t complete without
this witch’s herb
• Mugwort flower essence remedy is the safest,
mostaccessiblemethodofuse.However,becau-
tious: a bottle of mugwort essential oil is easily
mistakenfortheflowerremedy.Besureyouhave
the right product, especially if you plan to take
the flower remedy internally. Follow the manu-
facturer’sdirectionsforinternaldosageoraddto
baths and massage oils380/901
Dream Stimulation Flower
Essence Remedies
Floweressenceremediesarestronglybeneficialforthedream
processbecausetheyworkuponsoulandemotionsmosteas-
ily expressed through dreams. The effects of any flower es-
senceremedymaybeperceivedthroughdreams,butthefol-
lowing specifically stimulate and facilitate dreaming.
• Apple (FES)
• Chokecherry (Pegasus)
• Gum plant (FES)
• Jimson weed (Pegasus)
• Mugwort (FES, Pegasus)
Takeincombinationsofuptosixremediesatatime,asper
manufacturer’s directions. Place a few drops in a glass of
spring water and drink before going to sleep, or rub flower
remedies into the thin skin between your thumb and
forefinger.
Dream Stimulation: Holed
Stone
Humbleholedstonesfacilitatedreamsasmuch,ifnotmore,
thanpreciousgemstones.Shouldyoufindanaturallyperfor-
atedpebbleorsmallrock,treasureit:it’sapricelessgiftfrom
Earth.Thesestonesprovideprotection,andclairvoyance,and
enhance all facets of the dream process.381/901
To access a holed stone’s dream power:
• Wear it around your neck
• Attach it to the headboard or bed post
• Post it on the wall above the bed
• Tuck it under the pillow
Dream Baths
Thesebathsareintendedtoberelaxing,sensuous,andsooth-
ing.Don’ttossbotanicalsoveryourhead;justrelaxinthetub.
Warmwaterisgenerallymoreconducivetosleepanddreams
thaneitherhotorcold.Simultaneouslyburningcandlesand
dream incense in the bathroom may facilitate the process, too.
Takethesebathsjustpriortogoingtosleep.Addessen-
tialoilstoabathafterthewaterhasbeendrawnandthetem-
peraturehasbeenadjusted.Unlessadvisedotherwise,adjust
quantitiestosuityournose,butremember:whenusingessen-
tial oils,less is always more.
Dream Bath (1) Dream Stimulation
This dream-stimulation bath doesn’t work on a regular
basis.It’sforuseasasingle-usejump-startonly.Thisbathis
most beneficial for the following purposes:
• To initiate your first forays into the dream-world
• To stimulate a specific, new course of dreaming
• Toinitiateanewdreamingprocess,afteranex-
tended period of not having or recalling dreams382/901
• Tokickoffanydreamhealing,dreamoracle,or
intensive dream spell
Addtwentytothirtydropsofmugwortfloweressencerem-
edy (never, never, never the essential oil!) to a bath before
bedtime.Followthemanufacturer’srecommendationsforin-
ternal use also, if so desired. This dosage is for single-use
only.Ifyou’dliketocontinueusingtheflowerremedyinthe
bath,reducethedosagetonomorethanfivedropsafterthe
initial foray.
Dream Bath (2) Mugwort Bath
Bathinginmugwortteamaybemorepleasantthandrink-
ing it and equally effective.
Pourboilingwateroveroneteaspoonofdriedmugwort.
Allowtheinfusiontocooltoroomtemperature,thenstrain
andaddtothebath.Enhancebyaddingafewdropsofmug-
wort flower remedy to the water, too.
Dream Bath (3) Romantic Mugwort
Bath
A plain mugwort bath is potent but medicinal. This bath
packsanequivalentpunchbutissensualandromantic,too,
not to mention excellent for enhancing love-dream oracles
and erotic dreams. Take:
One handful of dried hibiscus flowers
One tablespoon of orange blossoms383/901
One tablespoon of red rose petals
One teaspoon of dried mugwort
Three dried bay leaves
1. Placethebotanicalsinabowlandcoverwithboil-
ing water.
2. Allow this infusion to cool.
3. Strainthebotanicals,ifdesired,andaddtheliquid
to the bath.
Dream Incense
Dreamincenseisnotburnedwhileyousleepanddream;the
burningprocessshouldbecompletejustpriortoactuallygo-
ing to bed.
1. Closedoorsandwindowspriortoburningthein-
cense, to intensify its effects and fragrance.
2. Placetheincense burneronanightstand orona
safe area near the bed.
3. Burn the incense.
4. Whentheincensehascompletelyburned,provide
ventilation by opening doors and/or windows as
appropriate and then go to sleep. Don’t wait too
long or the fragrance may dissipate.
Dream Incense (1) Dream Herb
MugwortderivesfromtheEasternhemisphere.Otherplants
served similar purposes in the Western hemisphere,384/901
includingonethatearnedthenomdeplume,“DreamHerb.”
Calea zacatechichi is a native of the Mexican rainforest.
Burning dream herb as incense extracts its power.
1. Burn it in the bedroom before going to sleep, al-
lowing enough time for the incense to burn
completely.
2. Donotgotosleepuntiltheincensehascompletely
burned, inhaling the aroma instead and concen-
tratinguponthedreamadventuresonewishesto
experience.
3. Keepdoorsandwindowsclosedwhiletheincense
burns, but then immediately provide ventilation
before going to sleep.
Dream Incense (2) Next Realm
Burnthefollowingincenseinyourbedroombeforegoingto
sleepinordertocontactsomeonewhohaspassedoverinto
the next realm or just to see them in your dreams.
Acacia leaves
Myrrh
Star anise
Mashthebotanicalsupinamortarandpestleandburnbe-
fore going to sleep.385/901
Dream Incense (3) Shadows of the
Past
Sometimesthedreamyouneedtoincubatedoesn’tpertainto
the future; the information you require is buried in your
past.Thesebotanicalsarespecificallyusedtofacilitatepast-
life recall and also to access this lifetime’s hidden memories:
Chopped bay leaves
Honeysuckle blossoms
Lilac blossoms
Juniper
Burn the powdered ingredients on lit charcoal before
bedtime.
Dream Incubation Spells
Dreaming can be an adventure; one never knows what will
happen,whowe’llmeet,whatadventureswe’llhave.Although
thatcanbeveryexciting,sometimesweneedmorefromour
dreams.Weneeddreamstobeasourceforspecificinforma-
tion that we’re unable to access in any other fashion.
Adreamincubationspellrequestsaspecificdream.The
techniqueofdreamincubationbecomeseasierwithpractice;
initially it may be challenging. Do not give up if the dream
doesn’t occur on first attempt; persist, repeating as needed.
Different dream incubation spells work for different people.
Playaboutandexperimentuntilyoufindthosethatworkfor
you.386/901
Dream incubation is an ancient technique, pioneered in
early temples of healing, Earth’s first hospitals. Following
spells, rituals, counseling, and healing, one went to sleep
within the shrine with expectations of receiving a healing
dream:eitheranactualhealingwithinthedream,avisitation
fromtheresidentspirit,oftenintheformofasnake,individu-
aldiagnoses,ortreatmentrecommendations.Dreamsmaybe
incubated for any purpose, however.
Two types of spells for requesting dreams exist:
• Spells cast to receive a specific dream. The
dreamerknowsexactlywhatdreamorwhattype
of dream is needed: Dream Incubation Spells
• Spells and procedures to increase clairvoyance
and psychic ability. Dreams are prophetic;
however, the dreamer is content to receive
dreamsastheyappear,notspecifytheexactone.
These spells are classed among Prophetic Dreams
Dream Incubation (1) Archangel
Michael Dream Oracle
Michael the Archangel’s flaming sword illuminates dreams
andprovidessafetyasyoulingerinDreamland.Thisdream
oracleaffirmswhetheraspiritualpetitionorrequestisap-
propriateornot.Thisspellisbasedonsurvivingremnantsof
Alexandria’s Magical Papyri. The request for the dream is
made using a magic lamp.
1. Cleanse and purify yourself thoroughly, using
whatever methods you prefer.387/901
2. Thisspelldoesn’tassumethatyouhaveaspecial
rituallamp.Oillampswereoncecommonhouse-
holdarticles,likeatablelampistoday:itwasn’ta
bigdealbackthenforaspelltosuggestusingone,
any more than a modern spell’s request for a
spoonful of salt is an inconvenience. An
“everyday”magiclampmaybeused,orcreateone
followingtheinstructionsintheRitualToolsand
Techniqueschapter.
3. Light the lamp.
4. Speaktothelamplight,observingit,reactingtoit,
until it burns out.
5. Repeat the following incantation periodically
throughoutthevigil,anditmustberecitedatthe
very conclusion:
Lamp, light the way to Archangel Michael,
Ifmypetitionisappropriate,showmewaterand
a grave,
If not, show me water and a stone.
6. Be silent, go to sleep, and dream.
Thesymbolsofwaterandgraveandwaterandstonewere
usedatthedawningoftheCommonEra.Usethemifyoulike
orselectothersthatsuityoubetter;justannounceexplicitly
the identities of the symbols.
Dream Incubation Spell (2)
Artemis Assistance Spell
Divine assistance may be requested to receive the dreams
you need.388/901
1. Build an altar for Artemis.
2. Decorateitwithimagesofthemoonandtheanim-
als she loves, especially dogs, wolves, and deer.
3. Light silver and/or white candles.
4. Sprinkle dried mugwort onto lit charcoals and
burn as incense.
5. Describe the type of dream you need to Artemis.
6. Go to sleep.
Shouldyoureceiveyourdreams,Artemisacceptsgiftsoftoy
animals, your old childhood toys, living Artemisia plants,
and moon-shaped cakes lit with candles.
Dream Incubation (3) Ask the
Angels
Russianmagicfavorsbeautifullypoeticincantations.These
incantations follow specific formulas, usually placing the
spell-caster in the heart of a mythological dreamscape (an
island in the sea, the hills of Zion) before incorporating in-
formationpertainingtothespecificspell.Althoughthisfor-
mulamaybeusedtoincubateanydream,it’sbelievedpar-
ticularly beneficial for diagnosing and identifying mysteri-
ous health ailments.
1. Placeanobjectunderyourpillowthatpertainsto
the question you need answered in the dream.
2. Chant aloud:
IlieonthehillsofZionThreeangelssurroundmy
bedOnehearsallOneseesallOnetellsmewhatI
need to know.389/901
3. Conclude the chant by incorporating your ques-
tion, as succinctly and specifically as possible.
4. Go to sleep.
Dream Incubation (4) Ask the
Archangels
Sometimesyouneeddreamstogetintouchwiththespirits.
Sometimes you need spirits to help you receive the right
dream.Thisdreamdivinationisbasedupontraditionsfrom
Alexandria,thegreatEgyptiancityofAlexandertheGreat,
anddatesfromthefirstcenturiesoftheCommonEra.Itin-
vokes assistance from angels and clairvoyance from bay
laurel.
1. Write the following incantation on bay laurel
leaves:
IcalluponyouUriel,Michael,Raphael,andGab-
riel
Don’t pass me by
Don’t disregard me
As you bring your nightly visions, please enter
and reveal to me what I wish to know.
2. State your wish clearly, concisely, and explicitly.
3. Place the leaves beside your head and go to sleep.
Dream Message Spell
Sendamessageviadreams.ThegoalofthisGermanspellis
to magically induce someone else to have a specific dream.390/901
1. Determinetheexactdreamthatneedstobetrans-
mitted in as much detail as possible.
2. At the New Moon, place a clear quartz crystal
withinaglassofspringorHolyWaterandcreate
lunar-infused water by leaving it exposed to
moonlight overnight.
3. During the waxing moon, dress your bed with
clean white sheets and sprinkle the lunar water
over them.
4. Place yarrow, wormwood, and thyme inside a
muslin bag or tie up within a handkerchief.
5. Holdtheherbpacketinyourhand;concentrateon
the person for whom this dream is intended.
6. Placethepacketwithinyourpillowcase;asyougo
tosleepvisualizethedreamyou’dliketosendasif
you were watching a movie.
Dream Oil
Dream Oil (1) Gardenia
The fragrance of gardenias inspires abundant, prophetic
dreams, beckons benevolent spirits, and enhances psychic
ability.That’sthegoodnews.Thebadnewsisthatthescent
of genuine gardenia is rare. Commercially available
productsarealmostinvariablysynthetic;what’sinthebottle
smellslikegardeniabutdoesn’tactuallypossessthebotanic-
al’s magic powers. If at all possible, if you possess fresh
gardenia petals, create your own gardenia-infused oil to391/901
spark intensely powerful dreams. (The alternative is the
Tahitian gardenia-infused coconut oil known as monoi.)
1. Infuse gardenia petals in coconut oil. (It may re-
quireasmanyassixweekstoachievethedesired
intensity of fragrance.)
2. Strain the infused oil and discard the flowers.
3. Reservetheoil.Addapproximatelyonetablespoon
to a bath before bedtime to stimulate prophetic
dreams.
Dream Oil (2) Hidden Access
Thisoilisinfusedfromhoneysuckleblossomsandlilacblos-
soms.Thefragranceoflilacunlocksthedoorwherehidden
memories,fromthislifetimeandthoselongpast,arestored.
Unfortunatelythereisvirtuallynoversionofcommercially
availablelilacfragrancethatisnotsynthetic.Ifyou’dliketo
access lilac’s power, you’ll have to infuse your own oil.
1. Follow the instructions in Elements of Magic
Spellsfor making flower petal-infused oil.
2. Whentheoilisfinallycompleteandallbotanical
material has been strained out, for added en-
hancementaddafewdropsofmugwortfloweres-
sence remedy (FES).
3. Massage onto the body before bed or add to the
bathtounlockburiedmemoriesfromthislifetime
or others.392/901
Dream Pillows
Dreampillowsareanexcellentvenueforbotanicalstostimu-
late and enhance dreaming. Botanicals are placed within a
bag,whichistheneitherlaidunderthecheekorplacedbeside
youonthepillow.Thebagshouldbesmoothandcomfortable.
Botanicals are ground toafine powder sothat nothing pro-
trudes and irritates. A dream pillow that prevents you from
sleeping defeats its purpose.
Dream pillows serve all sorts of uses:
• Basic dream stimulation
• Incubation of specific types of dreams: erotic
dreams or financial dreams, for instance
• Sleep enhancement
• Nightmare prevention
• Spiritual protection while you sleep
Specify your goal by adjusting the botanicals stuffed within
the pillow. Every botanical has its own power: select those
thatcorrespondtoyourdesire.Craftingthedreampillowisa
spell: remember to charge and consecrate materials as de-
sired. Focus on your desire and intent while you’re crafting.
Every knot tied is an opportunity for an individual knot spell.
The typical dream pillow is made from muslin or some
other soft material. Natural fabrics breathe better, allowing
better access to the pillow’s fragrance. The pillow’s power is
deliveredtoyouviaitsaroma.Thestandardizeddreampillow
is12inchesby8inches(30cm×20cm)andrequiresapprox-
imately 8 to 10 ounces (around 300 g) of dried herbs.
However,craftwhateverpillowsuitsyoubest.Asmallsachet
made from highly absorbent material works beautifully.393/901
Resistthetemptationtostuffthepillowwithherbsinthemis-
taken belief that increased quantity always means increased
power:aflat,looselyfilledpillowismorecomfortable,more
conducive to sleep, and thus most likely to be more effective.
Basic Dream Pillow Instructions
For the pillow, cut two matching pieces of fabric and sew
them up together on three sides.
Fill the bag from the open end, and then sew this last
side up, too.
1. Botanicalsmustbecompletely,thoroughlydrybe-
foresewingintothepilloworsachetbecauseoth-
erwisetheymayrot,producinganacridfragrance
liabletostimulatenightmares,ratherthanthede-
sired dreams.
2. Unless they are very soft, grind ingredients to a
fine powder. Comfort is the key element: rose
petalsarepreferabletobuds,whicharepointyand
must be finely ground. Bay leaves are superb
dream enhancers but must be at least crushed.
Otherwisetheywillprotrudefromthepillowand
are liable to poke you in the eye.
3. If adding essential or fragrance oils, blend them
into the dried material well, using a twig or
woodenchopstick.Allowthematerialtimetodry
completelybefore sewing into the pillow.
4. Ifaddingcharmsorharderroots,placethemcare-
fullyinthecenterofthepillowandsurroundwith
softer material.394/901
5. Ideally,ifonlyformaximumeffectiveness,thepil-
low’sfragranceshouldbepleasingtoyou.Dislike
ofanybotanical’saromamaysignalthatthisplant
isnotbeneficialforyou.Irritationisliabletokeep
you awake, defeating the purpose. At the very
least, make sure you find the fragrance neutral.
Adjustthefragrancetosuityourtaste,keepingin
mindthatwhenyou’relyinginthedark,deprived
ofotherstimulation,especiallyifunabletosleep,
the fragrance may be more intense than initially
realized.
Crystal Dream Pillows
Manycrystalsenhancedreaming,butbecausetheymustbe
cleansedperiodically(formaximumpotencybutalsointhe
aftermath of disturbing visions and nightmares), don’t sew
them up inside a pillow or sachet.
1. Place a crystal on a clean white handkerchief to-
gether with some dream herbs.
2. Tie it together with a blue silk ribbon.
3. Sleep with this under your pillow or cheek.
4. Take it apart and cleanse as needed.
Quick-fix Dream Pillow
Sometimesyouhavetheherbsbutlackthetimeorpatience
tosew.Maybeyoujustreallyhatesewing.Inthatcaseplace
dreambotanicalsinawhitehandkerchiefandtiethemupin395/901
abundlewithared,blue,orsilverribbon.Thisisnotascom-
fortabletosleepwithasasmooth,flatpillow,andtheherbs
do have a tendency to spill out. However, purely from a
spell-caster’sperspective,thisisequallyaseffectiveasafull-
blown dream pillow.
Alternatively, fill a drawstring bag with dream herbs
anduseitasadreampillow.Muslinispreferabletoflannel,
as the fragrance is released with greater intensity.
Dream Pillow (1) A Basic Dream
Pillow
The simplest dream pillows contain one ingredient only:
mugwort.Fillapillowwithdriedmugworttostimulateyour
dreams.
Dream Pillow (2) Lover Dream of
Me
Sometimesit’snotyourowndreamsthataresocrucial.Give
thisdreampillowasagifttosomeonewhosedreamsyou’d
like to enter.
1. Grind allspice berries and orrisroot to a fine
powder.
2. Place them in a bowl together with dried honey-
suckle blossoms, red rose petals, and hibiscus
flowers.
3. Add a lock of your hair.396/901
4. Dress with one drop of essential oil of pine and
one drop of essential oil of sandalwood.
5. If you’d like, add one drop of menstrual blood.
6. Stir gently to blend thoroughly.
7. Allow the mixture to dry completely.
8. Use this blend to fill a small dream pillow and
present it to the one you love.
Pillows covered in red silk or satin are most powerful.
Dream Pillow (3) Prophet’s Pillow
Stuffadream pillow withheather for prophetic and finan-
cially insightful dreams.
Dream Potions
Don’t confuse magical dream potions with medicinal sleep
aids.Mostofthesepotionsareancientrecipes;whetherornot
they’ve since been discovered to have sedative properties is
incidental. Their goal is to promote dreaming, not to force-
fullysedateyouintosleep.Ingeneral,drinkthesepotionsjust
before bedtime.397/901
Dream Potion (1) Aphrodite’s True
Love Tea
Aphrodite’s sacred tree is the apple and thus its fruit is the
fruit of love.
Make apple blossom tea. Sweeten it with honey and
bringittobed.BeforedrinkingmakeaninvocationtoAph-
rodite, requesting that true love dreams be sent to you.
Dream Potion (2) Basic Mugwort
Tea
Plain mugwort tea is very potent. A cup before bedtime
shouldstimulatedreams.Unfortunatelyittastessounpleas-
ant few will drink it. Adding honey may be sufficient to
sweeten the taste for some.
Placeoneteaspoonofdriedmugwortinacupandcover
withboilingwater.Allowthistosteepfortenminutes,then
strain and drink.
Dream Potion (3) Basic Mugwort
Tea, Flavor Enhanced
A more palatable blend:
One tablespoon dried mugwort
One teaspoon dried lemon balm (melissa)
One teaspoon dried hibiscus398/901
1. Place the ingredients in a tea pot. (This is more
herbthannecessaryforasinglecupoftea.Adjust
quantities to suit your needs.)
2. Pourboilingwaterovertheherbsandletthemin-
fuse for ten minutes.
3. Strain and drink.
Sweeten with honey if desired.
Dream Protection
Whilesomeperceivethedreamstate’shallucinatoryfluidness
as an opportunity for spiritual growth, excitement, and ad-
venture, others fear sleep and dreams. Surrender of con-
sciousness leads to feelings of extreme vulnerability. That
anything can happen in a dream may be an invitation for
some,anightmareforothers.Thatsenseofexposureandvul-
nerabilityisnoillusion:allsortsofdefensesaresurrendered
together with consciousness when you lie down to sleep.
Standard physical precautions are taken: doors are locked,
windowsbolted,thestoveturnedoff,andburningcandlesex-
tinguishedtoavoiddangerandrisk.Specialmagicalsecurity
measuresmayalsobetakentoprovidespiritualsafetywhile
you sleep—a wise plan for nervous and intrepid dreamers
alike.
Thesespellsarespecificallydesignedtowardoffspiritual
night dangers rather than scary dreams or nightmares.399/901
Dream Protection (1) Basic
Botanicals
Thefollowingbotanicalsenhancesleep,oratleastwon’tdis-
turb it, while simultaneously creating a spiritual shield to
protect you while you sleep:
Angelica
Anise
Black mustard seeds
Cloves
Henna
Mugwort
Purslane
Rosemary
Rue
Saint John’s
Wort Southernwood
Sweet Annie
Sweet flag (calamus)
Vervain
Wormwood
Yarrow
Use one or any combination of the above to fill a dream
pillow.400/901
Dream Protection (2) Dream Pillow
Fillasmalldreampillowwithcorianderseedsanddillweed
toenhancesleepanddreams,andtoprovidespiritualpro-
tection at the same time.
Dream Rendezvous
Thisspellassistsdreamassignations.Thisspellmaybeeasi-
ertoaccomplishifthepeoplewishingtomeetinDreamland
work out the dream details in advance. (In other words,
make plans where to meet.)
Grind and powder linden flowers and blend with rice
flour. Both parties must dust their bodies from head to toe
with this powder before going to sleep.
Erotic Dreams
Aphrodisiacs create erotic enhancement while you’re awake;
certain botanicals stimulate sensual dreams and pleasures
while you sleep.
The following botanicals provide that special effect:
Aloes wood
Anise
Cardamom
Catnip
Cloves
Coriander seed401/901
Damiana
Gardenia
Henna
Hibiscus
Jasmine Myrrh
Orchids
Rose
Tagetes-marigold
Tuberose
Vanilla
Vervain
• Filladreampillowwithanyoneorcombination
of the above herbs
• Instead of filling a pillow with the herbs, place
themlooseinacoveredboxkeptbyyourbedside.
Inhale this potpourri before bedtime
• Makeaninfusionfromanycombinationofthese
botanicals, except tagetes, and add to your bath
• Dried plants aren’t necessarily more effective.
Placeabouquetofcutflowersonthenightstand
or keep living plants close enough to waft their
aroma over you while you sleep
Erotic Dreams (1) Angel’s Water
Bath
AddsubstantialquantitiesofAngel’sWatertoyourbathfor
aphrodisiac effect and to provoke erotic dreams.402/901
Erotic Dreams (2) Aphrodite’s
Dream Bath
Ifarealloverisn’tinyourbed,summonadreamloverin-
stead.Aphrodite’sfavoritebotanicalsincitedreamtimerev-
els. Allow yourself to air-dry; the botanicals will linger on
your skin and attract real-life lovers, too.
Usesixdropsofessentialoilofmyrtleandsixdropsof
rose attar in your bath.
Erotic Dreams (3) Honeysuckle
Some erotic dream-inducing botanicals are particularly
powerful. Honeysuckle, in particular, is strong enough to
create the desired reactions independently.
• Add honeysuckle flower essence remedy (Bach
flower) to the bath before bedtime
• Ifyou’refortunateenoughtopossessrealhoney-
suckle,placesomeonyourpilloworbythebedso
that its aroma wafts over you
Erotic Dreams (4) Honeysuckle
Bedtime Foot Massage
1. Gently warm a little hazelnut oil.403/901
2. Remove the oil from the source of heat and add
one or two drops of jasmine absolute and a few
drops of honeysuckle flower remedy (Bach flower).
3. Massage this into your feet and ankles when you
get into bed.
Erotic Dreams (5) Rose Bath
One cup of rose hydrosol
Five drops of rose attar
Five drops of neroli or essential oil of petitgrain
Fivedropsofhoneysucklefloweressenceremedy
(Bach flower)
Addalltheabove“ingredients”toatubfilledwithwaterand
luxuriate before bedtime.
For maximum effect, float fresh rose petals and/or or-
ange blossoms in the bath, too.
Lucid Dreaming Spell
Lucid dreaming is the technique of staying conscious while
dreaming, thus being able to actively navigate through
Dreamland rather than being the passive recipient of
dreams. Various methods teach mastery of this shamanic
art;however,manypeoplehavespontaneous,ifbrief,lucid
dream moments.
Jasmine’s fragrance encourages this spontaneous lucid
dreaming. For maximum effectiveness, maintain living jas-
mine plants in the bedroom. If this is not possible,404/901
incorporate jasmine attar into a pre-bedtime massage, or
sprinkle the sheets with jasmine water.
Marriage Dream
Thisismorethanasoulmateortruelovedream.Bridewort
has an affinity for marriage; allegedly this spell produces
dream visions of the one you’ll marry.
CreateinfusedoilfromtheblossomsoftheDruid’ssac-
red plant Queen of the Meadow, also known as bridewort.
Rubitonyourbodybeforebedtimetodreamoftheoneyou’ll
marry.
Prophetic Dreams
The floodgates of psychic ability are completely open while
wesleep.Stimulatepropheticdreams,enhanceandencour-
ageclairvoyancewithvariousspells.Experimenttodiscover
which ones best enhance your own innate power. Many of
these techniques also encourage dreams to linger, be more
vivid, and more easily recalled.
Prophetic Dreams (1) Basic Psychic
Enhancement
Certain botanicals stimulate clairvoyance, psychic percep-
tions, and prophesy:405/901
Angelica
Anise
Basil
Bay laurel
Copal
Dittany of Crete
Dream herb (zacatechichi)
Gardenia
Mimosa
Mugwort
Peppermint
Roses
Sandalwood
Syrian rue (harmel)
Wisteria
Wormwood
Useanyoneorcombinationoftheseherbstostuffdreampil-
lows.Orplaceanycombinationoftheminaconjurebag,to
be worn around the neck at night.
Prophetic Dreams (2) Botanical
Blast
1. Choose any combination of the prophetic-dream
botanicals listed above.
2. Place the loose botanicals inside a covered box,
kept beside your bed.
3. Uncover or inhale this potpourri before sleeping,
to receive a blast of its power.406/901
Prophetic Dreams (3) Lucky Mystic
Powder
A Hoodoo formulation said to induce psychic dreams:
1. Grinddriedbasilandvetiverroottogether,creat-
ing a fine powder.
2. Blendthispowderwithsilvermagneticsand,until
you achieve a fragrance and appearance that
pleases you.
3. Sprinkle this powder around your bed before
bedtime.
Prophetic Dreams (4) Rose Tea
Rosesareoftenheavilysprayedwithpesticidesmakingthem
unsafetodrink.Makesureyourrosesareorganic,anddrink
acupofteabrewedfromthembeforebedtimetostimulate
clairvoyant dreams.
Remembering Dreams
The dream was desperately needed. Perhaps you needed to
see your true love’s face before you accepted what might be
the wrong marriage proposal. Maybe you needed a dream
consultation with your grandmother regarding some vital
familysecrets.Yougroundthedreamincensebyhand,forced
yourselftodrinkthatbitter,bittermugworttea,andsurroun-
ded yourself with dream charms and pillows. You tried and407/901
practicedforweeksandfinallyyouhadtheexactdreamyou
needed!Youweresoexcitedyoupromptlywokeup—andfor-
got the dream.
It’shappenedtoallofus.Adreamissovivid,sovital,so
important we swear we can never forget it even if we try.
We’re so sure of this that we see no reason to record the
dream and withinhours precious details are gone forever.
Dreamsarebynatureelusive:ifyoumoveabruptlywhen
youawake,youwillloseallorpartofyourdreams.Nothing
preventsdreamsfrombeingrecalledmorethanaloud,sud-
denalarmclock.Dreamsarealwaysretainedandrecalledbet-
terifonewakesnaturally,wheneveroneisready.Ifyoumust
wakeupontime,gentlytransitioningawake,perhapstosoft
music,ratherthanbeingabruptlyjoltedawake,increasesthe
likelihood of retaining your dreams.
Keeppenandpaperbyyourbedside.Somepreferaspe-
cial dream journal. As you become an experienced dreamer,
youmayawakenbrieflyfollowingeverydream,inordertore-
cordit,beforereturningtosleep.Thisshouldn’tdisturbyour
rest: “awaken” may be the wrong word. A sort of half-sleep
state is achieved, just awake enough to fuzzily perform the
functionofwriting.Thissemi-comatosestateisthebeststate
inwhichtorecallandrecorddreams.Somelearntowritein
the dark, some learn to write with their eyes closed. Dream
pens are sold containing tiny lights, so as to provide just
enoughtowriteby.Aslongasyoucanunderstandyourown
writing later, it’s not important to write neatly now. Tran-
scribe dreams into a proper journal later.
Record dreams immediately: even minutes later, details
disappear forever from memory. Don’t believe me? Experi-
ment:whenyouawake,writedownyourdreamimmediately,
then go back to sleep or about your business. Several hours
later,withoutreadingwhatyou’vewritten,recallyourdream408/901
orwriteitdownagain.Gobacktoyourfirstrecord:mostwill
discover that the initial description included details, some
crucial, no longer remembered.
Other methods assist dream recall too.
Remember Your Dreams (1) Aloes
Wood
Aloes wood (not aloe vera, a different plant) is believed to
deepen sleep and to create access to other realms while
dreaming.Itisalsosupposedtoenableyoutobetterremem-
beryourdreams.Aloeswoodisrare:burnsplintersofitata
time, while wishing for profound, magical dreams.
Remember Your Dreams (2) Bath
This fragrant bath encourages dreams to linger longer so
that you can remember them better.
Four drops essential oil of juniper
Four drops essential oil of lavender
Four drops essential oil of mimosa
Add the essential oils to a full tub of water.409/901
Remember Your Dreams (3) Moon
Potion
Thisenhancedmethodnotonlyhelpsyourecalldreamsbut
also promotes understanding and clarification.
1. Chargeabottleofspringwaterinfullmoonlight.
Refrigerate the water.
2. Before going to sleep, pour a small glass of water.
3. Takeafewsips;leavetherestbesidethebedtosip
as needed.
4. Reserve a little bit to drink just before recording
any received dreams.
Stop Dreaming
Becausesometimesyou’vehadenough:hangasprigoflemon
verbenaaroundyournecktohaltthedreamprocess,should
you need to take a break.
Sunflower Truth Spell
Ifyoususpectlieshavebeentold,havethetruthrevealedin
your dreams.
1. Beforetaking thenextstep,talktothesunflower
plant and explain what is about to occur and why.
2. Pullupanentiresunflowerandgentlyshakeitfree
of dirt. Otherwise leave the plant whole.410/901
3. Place an offering (coins, honey, tobacco) in the
hole left by the plant.
4. Place the sunflower beneath your bed. The truth
should be revealed within your dreams.
True Love Dream Spells
Fairytalesarefilledwithprincessesdeterminedtowednone
buttheironetruelove,theirsoulmate.They’veneveractually
mettheguy,buthevisitsfrequentlyindreams.Perhapsthe
princesses tried one of the following spells:
True Love Dream Spell (1) Cards of
Love
1. Remove all four playing cards corresponding to
thegenderofthepersonyoudesirefromadeckof
playing cards: kings for men, queens for women.
2. Placethefourcardsunderyourpillowtodreamof
your true love.
If for any reason, one card, not necessarily a court card,
holds special romantic significance for you, substitute that
card instead.411/901
True Love Dream Spell (2) Daisies
After you’ve established whether or not he loves you by
pullingthepetalsoffdaisies,placedaisyrootsbeneathyour
pillow to dream of your true love.
True Love Dream Spell (3) Dinner
for Two
Aftereveryonehaseatendinnerandleftthetable,discreetly
pickupaknifeandsomesaltandbreadthathavebeenleft
behind. Place these under your pillow to dream of your
beloved.
True Love Dream Spell (4) Dumb
Cakes
Castthisdreamspellonasolitaryevening.However,it’sa
lot more fun to cast it the traditional way: during a sleep-
over party with sisters or good friends.
1. Combine one cup of flour, one cup of salt, and a
sprinkleoffireplaceashes.(Scrapeanyashesfrom
outofthefireplace,butleftoverashesfromsome
love incense or from a fireplace romance divina-
tion are most powerful.)
2. Add enough water to form a “batter.”412/901
3. Ladlethebatterontoaheated,greasedgriddle,so
thatthereisonedumbcakeperparticipant. Pre-
tend you’re making pancakes. Flip them with a
spatula.
4. Beforeeachdumbcakeiscompletelydone,scratch
a name or initials or some identifying mark onto
the cake, so that everyone knows to whom each
cake belongs.
5. Each time you flip a cake, add an additional
sprinkle of salt. (If there’s a party, make sure
everyone gets the chance to flip a dumb cake.)
6. What’sthenextstep?Eatthem?Ohno,thatwould
betoocruel!Instead,eachpersonmustplaceher
dumbcakeunderherpillowtodreamofhervery
own true love.
Why are these called dumb cakes? Not because these pan-
cakes taste so bad you’d have to be severely intellectually
challengedtoeatthem,butbecausetheritualdemandstotal
silence(notapeep!)fromanyoneinvolved,fromstartuntil
theconclusionthenextmorningafteralldreamshavebeen
recorded!
True Love Dream Spell (5) Shoes,
Fetch My Lover
1. Sprinkleapairofyourbeloved’sshoeswithspring
water orAngel’s Water.
2. Placeasprigofthymeinoneshoe,rosemaryinthe
other.
3. Place a shoe on either side of your bed.413/901
4. Crawl in and dream.
True Love Dream Spell (6)
Underwear Spell
Thisspell,atleastfromStep2onwards,iscastunderaFull
Moon.
1. Obtain an undergarment appropriate for the
gender of the one of whom you wish to dream.
2. Perform appropriate personal cleansing spells.
3. Take a bucket of pure spring water or Angel’s
WaterandgooutsideatmidnightundertheFull
Moon. (The traditional recommendation is that
youshouldbenaked,howeveradapttoyourneeds
and circumstances.)
4. Gaze at the moon: make a petition for true love
and a request to see your lover in your dreams.
Show the moon the underwear.
5. Toss the bucket of water over your left shoulder.
6. Go to bed without looking back.
7. Place the underwear under your pillow and say
aloud: “Lover, come get your underwear!”
8. Go to sleep.
Reserve the underwear afterwards. The spell may be re-
peated,asneeded.Shouldyourdreamloverarrive,fumigate
withDreamsofDelightorothereroticincenseandhavehim
or her wear the item for you.414/901
True Love Dream Spell (7) Wild
Roses
Drinkacupofteamadewithwildrosepetalsbeforebedtime
to conjure a vision of your true love.
Insomnia
Ifyoucan’tsleep,youcan’tdream,it’sthatsimple.Ofcourse,
chronic insomnia causes other troubles too: you’re grouchy,
irritable, and inefficient at work. Unable to sleep when you
want, you may find yourself unable to stay awake at incon-
venientmoments.Yourimmunesystemmaysuffer.Because
somuchgrowthandhealingoccursduringsleep(orisitdur-
ing dreams?) you may find yourself feeling stagnant and
blocked.Manyturntosleepingpills,whichcanforcesedation
but tend to suppress dreams. Is this a problem? Consider
whether you wake up feeling refreshed and ready to go and
you’ll have your answer.
These are traditional magical remedies; they may
or may not also have sedative or other sleep-en-
hancing properties. However just because remed-
ies are magical doesn’t mean that they don’t also
have profound physical impact, particularly
botanical-based spells. Insomnia can be an ad-
junct of various physical ailments: discuss your415/901
remedy plans with your professional health-care
provider before initiating any course of action.
There are sleep scientists and dream researchers who
considerthatthewholereasonforsleepistoprovideanop-
portunityfordreaming.It’sthedreamingpartthat’sreallythe
necessity. Without ample rest and sleep, one’s psychic and
magic powers suffer and weaken. Because sleep and dreams
are so crucial to magic, a host of magical remedies exist to
ease your way into Dreamland.
Insomnia Bath
Thisbathprovidesthesoothingequivalentofmilkandcook-
iesbeforebedtime.Itspowerisproportionatetothequantity
of milk used.
1. Gentlywarmgoats’or,ideally,sheep’smilk(asin
counting sheep).
2. Blendtruealmondextractandseveraldropsofes-
sentialoiloflavenderintothewarmmilksothat
the fragrance pleases you.
3. Add to a tub filled with warm water before
bedtime.416/901
Insomnia Incense
Blend pine, juniper, and ledum, and burn as incense. This
soothes an insomniac to sleep while stimulating prophetic
dreams at the same time.
Insomnia Spell (1) Basic Botanicals
for Sweet Sleep
The following herbs allegedly promote sound, deep sleep:
Bee balm (Monarda didyma), also sometimes
calledbergamotorbergamotmint.Itisnota
truemintnorshoulditbeconfusedwithes-
sential oil of bergamot, which is extracted
from a type of Italian bitter orange.
Calendula blossoms
Catnip
Chamomile blossoms
Henna
Hops
Linden blossoms
Marjoram
Mullein
Patchouli
Poppies and poppy seeds
Tuberose
Valerian
Vervain
Vetiver417/901
Place any one or combination of these herbs in a dream
pillow.
Insomnia Spell (2) Crystals to
Enhance Sleep
Crystal gemstones can stimulate sleep as well as dreams.
Blue crystals in general are particularly beneficial. Other
stonesbelievedtoencouragesleepanddreamsincludeam-
ber,amethyst, emerald, jet, and smoky quartz.
Charge the crystal with your desired goal prior to its
initialuse.Crystals’magicpowermaybeaccessedinanyof
the following ways:
• Place one or more crystals under your pillow
• Wearasjewelryagainstyourskinwhileattempt-
ing sleep
• Createsleepcharms: hangthemfromyourbed-
posts or keep a larger stone on the nightstand
Insomnia Spell (3) Freya’s Sleep
Potion
BeautifulFreyaruleslove,sex,andmagic.QueenofWitches,
original sponsor of Scandinavian shamans, Freya journeys
throughtheskyinherfalcon-feathercloak.Simplecowslip,a
wildprimrose,ranks amonghersacredplants.Itallegedly
permits dream visitations from the land of the fairies, too.418/901
Steep cowslips in wine or milk, and drink this before
bedtime.Backinthegoodolddays,winewasactuallymade
fromcowslip,ostensiblytopreventandhealinsomnia.Ifyou
have some, try it!
Insomnia Spell (4) Sleep like
You’re Dead Pillow
So tired and sleep-deprived, you’re starting to look at the
cemetery with envy? The following botanicals have earned
thenicknamegraveyarddustbecausetheyallegedlyencour-
age you to sleep as soundly and peacefully as the dead:
patchouli, mullein, and valerian.
1. Grind the botanicals together to create a fine
powder.
2. For extra enhancement, add another botanical
strongly associated with sleep—poppy seeds—the
first anesthesia.
3. Fill a dream pillow with the botanicals and sleep.
For enhanced dreaming, add chopped-up bay leaves too.
Insomnia Spell (5) Violet Wreath
Makeawreathfromvioletleavesand/orflowers;wearitfor
a sound night’s sleep.419/901
Nightmares
Theproblemisn’tthatyoucan’tsleep;you’rejusttooscared
to close your eyes.
Goingtosleep,awelcomereliefforsome,apalaceofde-
light for others, is the living equivalent of going to hell for
those afflicted with chronic nightmare. Because sleep is a
place of persecution and misery, those afflicted with night-
mares often avoid it at all costs, driving themselves to stay
awakeaslongaspossible.Temperamentsuffers,worksuffers,
health suffers, and magic power also suffers as a result.
Everyonehasabaddreamonceinawhile.Theoccasion-
al disturbing dream may be a warning signal of some sort,
worthy of attention and careful interpretation. For those af-
flicted with chronic nightmare, every dream is a horror, the
onlygoodnightadreamlessone.Whatshouldbeasourceof
pleasure and power feels like being cursed and haunted
instead.
Therearevariousmagicalinterpretationsfornightmares.
Insomecases,itisperceivedasahauntingorcurse.Theactu-
alword“nightmare”derivesfromtheGerman“mara,”atype
ofevilspirit,whichsquatsonasleeper’schest,causingfright-
eningdreamsandthesensationofsuffocation.Spiritshaunt
Dreamland,sometimesfromgoodintentbutsometimesnot.
Ghostly visitations may be desirable after that necromantic
ritual you performed because you need to ask Great Aunt
Maudthatimportantquestionwhichonlyshecananswer,but
nightmarishwhentheghostmakesthefirstmove.Thenthere
areassortedvampires,incubi,succubi,etc.—creaturesofthe
nightthatrevelincreatingnocturnaldisturbance.Sometimes
spiritual portals are accidentally opened, allowing us to420/901
witnessthingsweshouldnot.Sometimes, aswewillsee,an
actofmaliceallowsonepersontosendanotherafrightening
dream.
Typicallychronicnightmaresindicatesomesortofspir-
itualandemotionalimbalance(magic,aholisticsystem,can-
notseparatethetwo)orevensomekindofextended,unpleas-
ant spiritual test. Avoidance of sleep and suppression of
dreamsisn’tthesolution.Dreamsmustbeanalyzed(bypro-
fessionaldreamdiviners,ifnecessary),untangled,andfaced,
so that they will disperse and make room for sweeter, more
desirable dreams.
Dreamsdelivermessagestous,fromEarth,fromspirits,
fromancestors,allies,otherdreamers,andourownsubcon-
scious. What happens if someone tries to call you on the
phoneandcan’tgetthrough?Sometimesthecallergivesup,
butifit’simportantandthecallerisresponsibleandpersist-
ent,they’llkeeptrying.Ifyoufailtopickuporproperlyun-
derstandadreammessage,thatdreamorrecognizable vari-
ations will repeat itself until you do.
Next time someone chases you in a dream, whether
loathsomeexorfearsomecreature,turnaroundandconfront
it.Calmly,firmly,askitwhatitwants.Oddsarethoseanimal
dreamsinvolveananimalallytryingtogetintouchwithyou.
Animalalliescomeinallforms,notjustcuddlybunnies.Deep
fearisasmuchanindicationofanallianceasdeeploveand
attraction.Theallymaymisunderstandyourreactionsinthe
same way that you misunderstand theirs. Anxious to reach
you, the more you run, the faster they chase and the more
eagerly they await your return to Dreamland. The creatures
don’tnecessarilymeantoscareyou;theymayevenmeanto
assist you.
Yes,thissoundseasiersaidthandone,butitcanbeac-
complished,althoughtakingcontrolofyourdreamsmaytake421/901
time. As usual, there are magical tools to assist, to provide
protection, and to place bad dreams in perspective and
abeyance.
Nightmare Spell (1)
Anti-Nightmare Garden
Whystartanightmareprotectionplaninthebedroom?Tar-
get the whole house. There’s a reason everyone in Sleeping
Beautysleptsosoundly.Thatwildovergrowthofsurround-
ingbotanicalsbanishedbaddreams.Thisisn’tasuggestion
to banish the gardener, too. The plants can still be mani-
cured if you wish; however, certain botanicals provide
nightmare blocking. Cast a living circle around your house.
The primary botanical nightmare-repellant is rose-
mary.Giventheopportunityitflourishesandgrowswildly.
Other suggestions include:
Mimosa
Mint
Mugwort
Poppies
Roses
Rowan
Saint John’s Wort
Snake plant
Wormwood422/901
Nightmare Spell (2) Banishing
This spell is most beneficial immediately after a nightmare
although it can be used to disperse lingering effects long
afterthedreamisover,too.Ifpossible,keepawindowopen
forthedurationofthespell,toencouragedreamvisitations
to fly away.
1. Writethenightmaredownindetailonapieceof
fresh paper.
2. Light a white, silver, black, or red candle.
3. Hold the paper in the flame until it catches fire.
4. Let the paper burn down in a saucer or cauldron.
5. Cover it if necessary with a second upside-down
platesothattheashesdon’tescapeintothehouse.
This is tricky because youcan put the fire out.If
so, just light it again. It’s vital that the entire
dreamisburnedtoashesandremovedfromyour
home.
6. If possible, dispose of the ashes immediately
throughanopendoororwindow.Ifnot,placethe
ashes inside a brown paper bag and dispose of it
outside the house as soon as possible.
Nightmare Spell (3) Candle
1. Chargeayelloworgoldencandlewithyourdesire
forsound,peaceful,untroubledsleep.Placeaglass
of spring water beside it while it burns.423/901
2. Whenyou’rereadytosleep,placethisglassofwa-
ter beside your bed to absorb any bad dreams.
(There’s no need to keep the candle burning.)
3. In the morning, flush the water down the toilet,
whether you recall bad dreams or not. Repeat as
needed.
Nightmare Spell (4) Crystals
Certain crystal gemstones repel and relieve nightmares:
• Bluecrystalsingeneral,especiallyangelite,lapis
lazuli, and turquoise
• Black crystals, with the possible exception of onyx
• Chrysolite
• Citrine
• Topaz
How to access the crystal’s nightmare-repelling powers:
• Wear while sleeping so that they are in contact
with your skin
• Place one or more on or beneath your pillow
• Put one or more in a small flannel drawstring
bag; wear it like a shield across your chest or
place it beneath your cheek for comfort
• Cast a circle around your bed or on your bed
around you with crystal gemstones
Onyxisastonethatevokesunpredictablepersonalreactions.
Althoughitisusedtohaltnightmares,itoccasionallycauses
them.Ifyouhabituallywearonyxandalsohabituallyhave424/901
bad dreams, remove the stone(s) and observe any reactions.
Many magical approaches to nightmares consider the long-
termresults:spellsforbanishingthem,preventingthem,un-
derstandingthem,andminimizingthem.Whatactioncanyou
take when you’ve just awakened from a nightmare? Night-
mare dispersal spells are intended to disperse and nullify a
specific nightmare’s effects immediately upon waking.
Nightmare Spell (5) Dream Catcher
Spidersweavedreamsaswellasspinningwebs.Intheindi-
genous traditions of the Native American Plains, circular
websresemblingaspider’sweb,knownas“dreamcatchers,”
are hung over the bed to facilitate the arrival of desired
dreams while preventing disturbing dreams from reaching
the dreamer. Not only are nightmares prevented, but the
dreams received are happier, more vivid and exciting.
Chargethedreamcatcherwithyourdesiresandneeds
beforehangingoverthebed.Ifdisturbingdreamssuddenly
startarriving,itmaybetimetocleansethedreamcatcher
(emptying out the vacuum bag, so to speak) by passing it
through cleansing incense smoke.The Evil Eye
Oh,thatEvilEye!Istherereallysuchathing?Isitacon-
stant dire threat, a secret universal force, or nothing but
cliché,theworstuseofmagicandsuperstitionasarepressive
force? And is there really an eye involved?
The answer is a qualified yes to all of the above.
Although it may be delivered by people, the Evil Eye is
notthesamethingasamalevolentspell.Amalevolentspellis
targeteddeliberatelyandintentionally:thespellmustactually
becast.
TheEvilEyeisnotaspellatall,althoughtherearemany
spells to oppose it. Instead the Evil Eye is an ill-defined,
somewhat nebulous, but entirely malefic force naturally
presentintheuniverse—adifferentkindofmagicpower.Al-
though there is general agreement on what constitutes the
EvilEye,whoisvulnerable,andthenatureofitsdestructive
effects, exactly where the Eye emanates from is subject to
heated metaphysical debate.
Some perceive the Evil Eye as an abstract destructive
force,likeaninfectiouscloudthatonemustattempttoavoid,
wardoff,repel,minimize,orremove.Manyothertraditions,
however,believethatpeopledelivertheEvilEye,sometimes
knowingly, sometimes completely innocently and uninten-
tionally. Sometimes they just can’t help it.
Fromthatperspective,theEvilEyeisadestructiveforce
that emanates from certain or potentially all people. Every
oneofus,accordingtosometheories,isabletocasttheEye.
Itisthehumanabilitytoscorchwithaglance.TheEvilEyeis
theforceofenvy,jealousy,andresentmentthatshootsoutof
the human soul like a heat-seeking missile.426/901
TheEyereferencemaybeunderstoodintwoways,which
are not mutually exclusive:
1. The Evil Eye as omnipresent destructive abstract
force,somewhatsimilartoTheLordoftheRings’
all-seeing Eye. Try as you may to hide happiness
and good fortune, the Evil Eye is attracted, sees
all, and spoils it.
2. TheEvilEyeiscastwiththehumaneye,eitherin-
tentionally by those who are jealous, destructive,
andmaliciousbynature,orinvoluntarilyinother
circumstances.
There are also two methods of avoiding the Evil Eye:
1. Don’tboast,brag,orcallundueattentiontoyour
good fortune.
2. Protection via the use of magically empowered
amulets and spells.
Because the secrets of other hearts are unknown, believers
counsel discretion regarding personal matters. What you
might never construe as bragging may still invoke the Eye
from another. The bereft, lonely, heartbroken woman, over-
hearinganothercomplainthattherearejusttoomanymenin
her life, may involuntarily shoot her with the Evil Eye. The
personunabletoconceiveorwhosechildrenhavedied,over-
hearingsomeonecomplainingabouthowhardlifeisbecause
herbabieswon’tsleepatnight,maybeunabletoresistcasting
that Evil Eye. It just shoots out.
ThenthereisthesouthernItalianjettatura.Thisperson
knowsheorsheiscastingtheEyebecausetheydoitallthe
time.Theycan’thelpit;theydon’tmeantodoit.Itisjusta
forcethatemanatesfromthem:everythingtheylookatturns427/901
to disaster. Glance at a building, within 24 hours it burns
down.Glanceatachampioncow,bynightfallit’ssickanddy-
ing. Glance at a pregnant woman…
They’renotnecessarilybadpeople,thesejettatura.They
mayevenbeverygoodpeople.Evenapopewasoncebranded
a jettatura; people ran from him, hoping to avoid that fatal
glance, no matter how benevolently it was intended. (If you
fearyouareorknowajettatura,don’tworry.Thereisama-
gical solution. Keep reading.)
Although anyone may be struck by the Evil Eye, not
everyone is equally vulnerable. Some are more at risk than
others:brides,babies,pregnantwomen,children,andhorses
are all exceptionally vulnerable. Men are not inherently vul-
nerabletotheEvilEye,buttheirsperm,genitals,andcapacity
for fertility are.
The connection with eyes is not limited to the English
language. In Italian, this force is called “mal d’occhio.” In
Hebrew,it’s“ayinhara,”literally“evileye.”InArabicit’sjust
“ayin”or“theeye.”Anti-EvilEyeamuletsinvariablytakethe
form of eyes, usually, in Mediterranean lands, blue eyes.
These blue eyes indicate something else about the Evil
Eye.People’sabstractconceptionoftheEvilEye,theconcept
ofitsexistenceratherthantheEvilEyeitself,hashistorically
beenusedtotargetminoritiesandindividualswhoarediffer-
ent from what is perceived as mass culture, although one
couldsaythatthepersecutorsaremanifestingthedestructive
forceoftheEyeevenastheyaccuseothers.ThusintheMedi-
terranean, blue eyes are suspect. In Northern Europe, dark
skinissuspect.Redheads,frequentlyaminority,areoftentar-
geted as possessing the Evil Eye.
Exploiting the Evil Eye as a tool of discrimination by a
dominant culture indicates little true magical knowledge,
littleunderstandingoftheEyeasaphenomenon,orelsethe428/901
complete degeneration of a magical system. The Evil Eye
eitheremanatesfromtheuniverseandnotfromanyindividu-
al,orelseeveryindividualpotentiallycaststheEye.Realma-
gicmakesdiscriminationandpersecutionunnecessary.It’sa
wasteoftime,onlyincreasingtensionandresentmentwithin
asociety.Realmagichasmuchmorepowerfulmeanstoavoid
and remove the Evil Eye.
Traditional signs of attack by the Evil Eye include:
• Sudden disaster. Everything was going really
wellandthen,allofasudden…amajorproblem
orseriesofproblemshitslikeaboltoflightning.
Aperfectlynormalpregnancysuddenlyisn’tnor-
mal any longer. A perfectly healthy child sud-
denly has a health crisis
• Notallmanifestationsaresosudden:theEvilEye
also manifests as malaise, characterized by con-
sistentlackofenergyandlackofinterest,andby
wasting illnesses that resist conventional dia-
gnosis and/or treatment
• Stubborn, persistent head or body lice
• Sudden, excessive biting of the lips, especially
while sleeping
• TheEvilEyecanalsoblockfertility,althoughitis
but one of many other potential metaphysical
reasonsgivenfortheinabilitytoconceiveorde-
liver a healthy, living child
ThereareseveralissuesinvolvedwhendealingwiththeEvil
Eye:prevention,sothattheEyecannotbecast;repelling,so
that even if cast it bounces off the target without causing
harm; and the removal of the Eye and its effects. There are
manymethodsemployedtopreventbeingavictimoftheEvil429/901
Eye,probablythemostcommonbeingthecarryingofcharms
and amulets.
• Many Evil Eye amulets also ward off other
dangers: malevolent magic, spiritual attack, etc.
Each type of disaster leaves you vulnerable to
others.ThereisanentirecategoryofgeneralPro-
tection Spells; however, these may not ward off
the Evil Eye and they will not remove it
• BecausetheEvilEyeistypicallyinflictedduring
personal contact, most frequently outside the
home,manyEvilEye-repellingcharmsandspells
are mobile, like amulets and conjure bags
• BecauseonecanneverbesurewhentheEyewill
be cast and from what direction, many magical
anti-EvilEyespellstaketheformofamuletsthat,
once charged, will repel the Eye independently
without further action from the spell-caster
• Anyone (babies, brides) or anything (new cars,
new houses) perceived as exceptionally vulner-
abletotheEvilEyemaybeprotectedbeforethe
Eye falls upon them
• Likehealingandcleansingspells,EvilEyeremov-
al spells frequently require the participation of
another to perform the spell on behalf of the af-
flicted. Always select ritual assistants carefully.
The “target” of the spell is generally the person
who is afflicted with the Eye430/901
There is some belief that the Tenth Command-
ment that forbids coveting actually refers to de-
liberate casting of the Evil Eye.
Body Defiance Spells
Justascertainpeopleandobjectsareinherentlyvulnerableto
theEye,certainimages,objects,andbotanicalsareperceived
as the Evil Eye’s natural enemies, repelling, removing, defy-
ing, and destroying the Eye by power of their very nature,
none more so than images depicting parts of the human
anatomy.
It takes an eye to defeat an eye.
Eye-shapedamuletsmatchtheEvilEye’sglance,distract
it, and overpower it.
Natural stones or crystals that vaguely or literally re-
sembleeyesarevaluedbutrare,aproblemwhentheEvilEye
is so omnipresent, therefore people developed more access-
ible talismans. Glass beads that look like tiny, perpetually
open eyes are favored worldwide, especially blue eye beads.
Althoughthisassociationhascausedtroublefortheblueeyed
incertainpartsoftheworld,theoriginalintentionwasnotto
pointfingersatcertainpeopleorethnicgroups.Insteadblue
is an important color indicating spiritual protection. Doors,
ceilings, and amulets are customarily painted blue for the
same reason. That blue eye beads protect from the Evil Eye
doesnotindicatethatblueeyedpeopleareanymorelikelyto
cast it.
The most famous and accessible blue eye bead is the
Turkish“nazarboncuk.”Theseroundbluebeadsmaybeused431/901
independentlyoneatatime,ortheymaybestrungtogether
to form shapes, especially horseshoes.
Blue Eye Bead Spells
Blue eye beads’ power will be enhanced if you cleanse,
charge, and consecrate them before use and whenever you
perceive that they’ve“worked”for you.
• Wear a single bead around your neck
• Pin individual beads all over using safety pins
• Sew them onto clothing or anything else that
needs protection
• Hang them from the rear-view mirror of an
automobile
Ifabeadcracks,it’sunderstoodtohaveworked.Itsdemiseis
considereddeathonthefieldofcombat,adirecthitfromthe
Evil Eye. Bury it with honor and replace it.
Chili Pepper Spell
Thisisamongthesimplestbutmostpotentanti-Evilcharms,
recommendedespeciallyforguardingspermcount,virility,
and male reproductive capacity.
1. Pierce a fresh, firm red chili pepper; ideally it
should appear as phallic or horn-like as possible.
2. String it from a cord and wear it around your neck.432/901
3. Its effectiveness lasts as long as it remains firm
and hard. A temporal amulet, replace as needed
with a fresh one.
Mutiny Against the Eye
Winged phalluses, the symbol of the Roman spirit Mutinus
and found in the ruins of Pompeii, serve as a prophylactic
against the Evil Eye. Wear or hang as needed.
The shape of the human hand is a ubiquitous, international
magicalprotectivecharm.Thehanddepictedmayberealistic
orextremelystylized;sometimesonlythefivefingersareim-
pliedusingfivedots,orapentagon.Fivefingerspokeoutthe
Eye. These hands are shared with general protective magic,
however other hand images specifically target the Evil Eye.
• The“fica”orfighand,anancientItalianamulet,
repels the Evil Eye. This amulet depicts a hand,
withthethumbpokingbetweenthefirsttwofin-
gers.Thisisintendedtoduplicatethereproduct-
iveact.Tomakemattersmoreexplicit,theword
“fig” is ancient slang for vulva. The hand, thus,
re-creates the power of the genitals
• The“manocornuto”orhornedhand,anotherold
Italian Evil Eye charm, displays a hand making
thesignofthehorns,firstandlastfingersthrust
out from the otherwise clenched hand
Should you find yourself threatened without recourse to an
amulet,takeyourhandsoffyourbelt:it’snotnecessarytore-
sort to the genuine article. Magical gestures made with the433/901
handswardofftheEye.Ingeneral,thisisnotaconfrontation-
alact:thegestureismadebehindthesuspect’sbackasthey
depart from you or under cover, out of sight. The goal is to
stop the Eye, not start a fight.
ThesespellswillrepeltheEvilEyeifyoucatchitasit’s
being sent or immediately after; they will not remove its ef-
fects, however. Stronger spells are needed.
General Evil Eye Protection
Spells
Bean Spells
Grow jack beans or sword beans as a border surrounding
your home and property to repel the Eye.
Coconut Reversal
1. Carry a coconut to your front door.
2. Hold it in your hands and visualize the forces of
evil plaguing you passing from your body out of
your hands and into the coconut.
3. Visualizethecoconut’seyesastheEvilEyeandthe
coconut head grinning at you.
4. When you’re ready, open the door, drop kick or
place the coconut on the floor and kick it out on
thestreet,yellingaggressively,“Getthehellout!”
or something stronger.434/901
5. Goinsideandimmediatelyperformcleansingand
protective rituals for yourself.
This may also be used to reverse any kind of malevolent
spell.
Conjure Bags
These bags, in general, provide protection from the Eye, a
measureofsecurity.TheywillnotnecessarilyremovetheEye
that’s already been cast.
Anti-Evil Eye Conjure Bag
Anti-EvilEyerecommendationsfromIndiasuggestfillinga
red bag with some or all of the following:
• Crocodile teeth
• Potteryshardsorbitsofterracottapotteryfound
in a cemetery
• Protective verses and sacred texts
• Chili peppers, lemons, or limes, to be replaced
with fresh ones weekly or as needed
Wear or carry the bag with you.435/901
Crescent Moon Charm
Underscoring the similarity between horns and crescent
moons, according to ancient Hebrew practice, wearing the
crescent moon shape repels the Evil Eye.
Dill Evil Eye Repellant
Hang dill over all entrances and windows to ward off the
Evil Eye.
Disarm Yourself! Evil Eye
Are you afraid thatyou’resending the Evil Eye? To disarm:
1. Unroll one cigarette.
2. Sprinkle the tobacco onto freshly lit charcoal.
3. Standoverthisincenseorwaftittowardyouwith
yourhandsorafan,sothatthesmokecreatesafu-
migation for you.
4. Repeat as needed.
Dress Spell
TheclothingwornwhentheEyeisencounteredcanhelpyou
remove and repel its effects. This Northern European tech-
nique of averting and removing the Evil Eye should be at-
temptedassoonaspossiblefollowingcontactwiththeEye.436/901
Thedressinthespellisunderstood tobetheoneyouwere
wearing when you met the Eye.
1. Pullyourdressoveryourheadasifyouwerere-
movingit,butinstead,withitheldoveryourhead,
twirl three times sunwise.
2. Remove the garment.
3. Holdingitopenand,leavingitinside-outifthisis
howithascomeoff,dropaburningcoalthroughit
three times.
4. Put the dress back on.
Evil Eye House Protection Spell
ProtectyournewhomefromtheEvilEyeandotherenvious
glances, particularly while it’s under construction.
1. Create a doll to divert the eye. In India, from
whencethisritualderives,thedollisusuallymade
fromfabricandstuffedwithstraw;however,what
the doll is made from isn’t as important as what
thedolllookslike.Thecrucialpointisthatitmust
beeye-catching.Usuallythedollsarevividincol-
or,funny, orsexually suggestive: longprotruding
redpenisesarecustomary,althoughthismaynot
play well in the suburbs.
2. Charge the doll with its mission, then set it on
scaffoldingorhangitabovethefrontdoor.When
observersglanceatyourhouse,theireyeisirres-
istibly drawn to the doll; they never see your
house.437/901
3. Remove the doll, if you like, following protective
rituals for the home.
Evil Eye Oil
AlthoughtheconceptoftheEvilEyeandmanyanti-EvilEye
spells are ancient, modern versions exist, too. This Hoodoo
spell draws upon a blend of Egyptian and British magical
traditions.
1. Drawablueeyeontoawhiteplateusingindigoor
blue food coloring.
2. Fill a dish with Van Van Oil.
3. Using water, rinse the blue eye off the plate into
the Van Van.
4. Rubtheresultingconcoctionontoyourhandsand
the soles of your feet daily for seven consecutive
days.
Forbestresults,accompanywithrecitationofpsalmsand/
or other sacred texts.
Evil Eye Removal Spells
AtypicalEvilEyeremovalspellinvolvesonepersonholding
somethingintheirhandwhichisthenpassedaroundthevic-
tim’sheadthreetimes.Thesubstanceheldinthehandmust
be magnetic and absorbent.
• The substance serves as an Evil Eye magnet: it
pulls the Evil Eye off the victim438/901
• Becauseitisabsorbent,theEvilEyegoesintothe
substance
• The substance is then usually immediately
thrownintoafire,destroyingtheEvilEyeandits
capacity to harm
ThisritualcanbeinresponsetoanattackoftheEvilEye,sus-
picionofattack,orevenjustasanightlyprecautionarymeth-
od. The person doing the removal (versus the target of the
spell, the victim of the Eye) magically concentrates and fo-
cuses on removing the Eye and blessing and protecting the
victim. The spell may be accompanied by murmuring bless-
ings,sacredtexts,and/ordefiantcommentstowardstheEye.
Although the spell may work even if done mechanically, it
lacks the potency and blessing-quality of a consciously em-
powered spell.
Evil Eye Removal (1) Black Cumin
1. Wrapanoddnumberofblackcuminseedsinpa-
per or place them inside a small paper bag.
2. PassthispacketaroundthevictimoftheEyethree
times.
3. Burn it in fire.
4. When you hear the seeds snap, crackle, and pop,
you’ll know the Evil Eye has cracked too. If no
soundsareheard,considerwhetherfurtheraction
is needed.439/901
Evil Eye Removal (2) Date Leaves
1. Collect 21 date palm leaves.
2. Knot them together, envisioning your goals and
desires as you form each knot.
3. Wave this garland around the afflicted person.
4. Placeitinacoveredterracottapotinthecornerof
the afflicted person’s room overnight.
5. Putanoldshoe,abroom,orapieceofironontop
of the pot.
6. In the morning dispose of the pot’s contents at a
crossroads or burn the garland outside the home.
7. Spiritually cleanse the pot before further use.
Evil Eye Removal (3) Egg
1. Pass one egg around the afflicted person three
times,mutteringblessings,sacredtexts,anddefi-
ance towards the Eye.
2. Taketheeggoutside,ideallyoffyourproperty,and
smash it on the ground.
3. Checkforsignsofblood;ifanyappear,continued
magical action is required.
Evil Eye Removal (4) Iron
1. Heat a bar of iron until it is red-hot.
2. Holdingitwithtongs,passtheironbararoundthe
afflicted person three times.440/901
3. Drop the bar into a dish of turmeric water.
4. Leaveitthereuntilthewatercools,thendisposeof
the water outside the house.
Evil Eye Removal (5) Is It Gone
Yet?
To determine whether the Eye has been removed, follow
spellstoremovetheEyebydroppingthreefreshdropsofoil
intoapanoffreshwater.Whenthedropsremainroundand
distinct, the Eye is gone.
Evil Eye Removal (6) Salt
1. Prepare a fire.
2. Passahandfulofsaltaroundtheafflictedperson’s
head three times.
3. Toss the salt into the fire.
Evil Eye Removal (7) Sizzling
Water
1. Youneedtocreateahotsurface:eitherplacehot
coals onto a plate or heat up a metal plate.
2. Place an overturned jar on top of the plate.
3. Fill a bowl with water. Pass it over the afflicted
person. Empty the water over the jar so that it
spillsontotheplate.(Ifthewaterhissesorsizzles441/901
orsomehowmakesnoise,it’sattemptingtocom-
municatewithyouregardingthespellandthesuc-
cess of the removal. Try to interpret.)
4. Place a metal implement across the now-empty
bowl until you can properly cleanse it.
Evil Eye Waters
The following formula waters repel the Eye:
Holy Water
Indigo Water
Marie Laveau Water
Notre Dame Water
Formulas may be found in theFormulary.
Add substantial quantities of one or a combination of
thesewaterstoyourbath.Alternatively,aspergeanareausing
a rue wand to cleanse the place of the Evil Eye’s influence.
Eyebright Evil Eye Repellant
Thedarkspotinthecenteroftheeyebrightflowerisoftenin-
terpretedasaneye.Growthefloweraroundyourhometo
repel the Eye.442/901
Five Eye Spell
Fivepairsofglassbeads,eachpairinadifferentdistinctcol-
or, are required for this amulet. Dizzying colors dazzle the
Evil Eye.
1. String the beads in a double row.
2. Arrange them in a circle.
3. Post or wear.
Five in Your Eye!
SometimesdazzlingtheEyeisn’tsufficient.Justaspeopleat-
tempt to protect themselves from the Eye, so the Eye is be-
lievedtopossessinstinctsofself-preservationandwillrecoil
from potential harm. How many times have you heard
adultsadmonishchildren,“Don’tplaywithsticks!You’llpoke
someone’seyeout!”or“Don’tpointyourfinger!You’reliable
topokeoutaneye!”Sharp,pointyobjectsandplainhuman
fingers serve as potent Evil Eye amulets.
ManyEvilEyespellsfeignaggressiveactionandmimic
destructionoftheEye.Don’ttouchorgetnearanyone’sactu-
aleyes!It’sthatbigabstractmalevolentinvisibleforcethat
mustbestopped,notanyone’sactualglanceortheirability
to glance.
1. When the threat of the Eye is perceived aggress-
ivelymutterorshout,asappropriate,theMoroc-
can saying “Five in your eye!”443/901
2. Add a thrusting motion of the hand with splayed
fingersinthedirectionthattheEyeisbelievedto
come from, or straight ahead of you if unknown.
Four Corners Dirt Spell
Thisquick-fixpan-Semiticspellisextremelyeffectiveforre-
moving all traces of the Evil Eye.
1. Take dirt from the four corners of your home.
2. Mix it together and throw it on a fire within the
house shouting fiercely “Get the hell out, Evil
Eye!”
Henna
Amuletsareleftathome,lost,forgotten,orgiventoothersas
emergency protection. Permanent amulets that can’t be lost
createanotheroption:oneoftheprimalreasonsfortattooing
is the creation of such a permanent amulet.
Onceuponatime,andsometimesstill,throughoutAfrica
and Asia, women’s faces were tattooed with small blue
downward-facingtrianglesand/oraseriesoffivedots,repres-
enting the protective energy of the human anatomy.
North African tattoo designs were particularly intricate,
eachdetailfilledwithsymbolicvalue.AftertheIslamiccon-
quest,Berberwomenwereforbiddentheirtraditionaltattoos.
Sothattheshapeswouldnotbeforgotten,thewomenturned
to henna.444/901
Henna,initself,isanextremelypotentenemyoftheEvil
Eye. Even carrying the powder in an amulet bag repels the
Eye; however its power is magnified when combined with
anti-Evil Eye imagery.
Mostotherbotanicalsdemonstratetheirpowerephemer-
allyorthrougharoma.Hennadoesbothandaddsvisualim-
pacttoo.Hennacreatesatemporarydyeontheskin.Thecol-
orrangesfromorangetobrickredtodeepbrown,allmeta-
physicallypowerfulcolors,particularlyinregardstospiritual
protection.Magical,amuletic,andtalismanicdesignsaredis-
played on the skin. Henna’s primary associations with wed-
dingsandfertilitymayderivefromitsreputationasapotent
anti-Evil Eye weapon.
Usethepowdertocreatehennapasteinordertodecor-
atehandandbody.(ChecktheFormularyforfurtherinstruc-
tion.)Themostefficaciousanti-EvilEyedesignstobeincor-
porated into henna decoration include:
• Downward-facing triangles
• Dots grouped together in series of five
• Pentagons
• Eyes, especially an eye inside a triangle
Thesedesignsmayalsobeincorporatedintotattoosandother
body art.
Home Protection Spell
Envious neighbors? Too many passers-by gazing at your
house? This spell is particularly effective when undergoing
construction work on a home.445/901
1. Attacharedribbontoahandofbananasandsome
rue.AddEvilEyebeadsoracimaruta,theItalian
Evil Eye amulet, for maximum effect. (The cim-
aruta is usually crafted from silver or a silver-
colored metal, and has evolved into a complex,
fabulous amulet.)
2. Hang outside the house until the bananas are
completely rotten.
3. Burn or bury everything; do not bring within the
home.
4. Repeat as needed.
Horn Charm Spell
Fill a small horn or cornucopia with sage leaves to protect
against the Eye. Wear it or situate it strategically.
Iron Anti-Evil Eye Spell
FoundnailsprotectagainsttheEvilEye.Ifyoufindone,pick
it up and carry it in a red conjure bag.
Mirror Charm
Supplyingyourowneyemaynotbenecessary.Mirrorsre-
flecttheEvilEyestraightbackwhereitcamefromand,as
with the fabled basilisk, can prove fatal.
Mirrors are incorporated into other amulets. Or they
canbestrategically arranged sobesttorepeltheEvilEye;446/901
sew small mirrors and reflecting surfaces onto your
clothing.
Nine Nail Lemon Charm
1. Pierce a lemon with nine nails.
2. Wind red thread around these nails.
3. Knot the end of the thread around one of the nails.
4. PlacethischarmabovethedoortorepeltheEvil
Eye.
Quick-fix Evil Eye Spells
Although many anti-Evil Eye spells and rituals are lengthy
andcomplex,inapinch,quick-fixanti-EvilEyespellscanbe
very effective, especially when you need to remove the Eye
from yourself without assistance.
Quick-fix Evil Eye Spell (1)
Drip olive oil into water, especially boiling water. Let the
watercool,andthenbatheyourselfwithit,focusingonthe
face, back of the neck, and the soles of your feet.447/901
Quick-fix Evil Eye Spell (2)
Drop glowing coals or lit matches into water. Watch them
hit the water. Expose yourself to any steam. Visualize the
Eye extinguished.
Quick-fix Evil Eye Spell (3)
Piercealemonwithironnails.Visualizeyourselfsimultan-
eously piercing the Evil Eye.
Remove the Eye Spell
This Italian spell removes the Evil Eye.
1. Add spring orHoly Waterto a saucer.
2. Addthreedropsofoliveoiltothewaterplusseven
small leaves from an olive branch that has been
blessed on Palm Sunday.
3. Dip your finger into the dish, swirl it in the in-
gredients,thenuseyourfingertomakeacrosson
the victim’s forehead, saying: Jesus, Joseph, and
Mary Evil Eye Away!
4. Repeattwomoretimesforatotalofthreecrosses
and three chants.
5. Repeatonthreeconsecutivemornings.Here’sthe
catch: oil and water don’t mix; if they do,
something is wrong. The drops of oil need to re-
mainvisiblydistinctwithinthewater.Shouldthey448/901
at any point disperse completely into the water,
disposeoftheingredients.Wait24hoursandre-
peat the entire ritual.
An alternative rhyme is sometimes used:
Two eyes have overlooked you
Two saints have enjoyed you
By the Father, Son, and the Holy Ghost
Evil Eye Away!
Secret Red Ribbon
Tiearedribbontoyourunderwear.(Justwearingredun-
derwearmaybeeffective,too.)Formaximumeffectiveness,
magically charge all items prior to use.
Send it Back!
This ritual either neutralizes the Eye or sends it back from
whence it came.
1. IfyouknoworsuspectwhocasttheEye,secretly
cut a small bit of the suspect’s clothing.
2. Burn it together with frankincense resin.
3. Brandish either the burning incense or the dish
withthecoldleftoverashesinfrontofthesuspect
with an aggressive gesture.
There’s no need to explicitly inform the other person of the
intent of the ritual: the effect is subliminal.449/901
Shark’s Tooth Spell
Wearafossilizedshark’stoothtorepeltheEvilEye.Cleanse
periodically by passing through protective incense smoke.Fertility: Spells for
Conception and
Contraception
Magic spells are cast to obtain many benefits: wealth, luck,
true love or a passionate lover, renewed health, enhanced
psychicpower.However,thesubjecttheyaremostprimordi-
ally and intrinsically involved with is human fertility.
Althoughit’softensuggestedthatreligionandmysticism
emerged in response to the mysteries of death, the very op-
positemaybethecase.Theearliestreligions,characterizedby
veneration ofimages ofthehuman genitals, were fascinated
bythemysteriesofbirthandlifeandgenerativepower.Clues
are imbedded in our language: the word “venerate” stems
from the same roots as Venus, venerable, and venereal.
Thisfascinationwithgenerationremainscruciallyinteg-
raltomagic.Afterall,whatdoesamagicspellusuallyattempt
to do but create something new, something that previously
didn’t exist? The Spirits most involved with magic (Hecate,
Artemis, Yemaya, Baba Yaga, Freya, Oshun, Aine, and so
manyothers)invariablyareinvolvedwithhumanreproduct-
ive capacities as well.
Themes of sexual reproduction echo throughout magic.
Magicalinstrumentsmostfrequentlydoubleasfertilitymotifs
as well: mortars and pestles, sieves, cauldrons, broomsticks,
nottomentionphallicwandsandsstaffs,derivetheirpower
fromassociationswithhumangenerativepower.Humanscan
generate babies and humans can generate magic.451/901
To some extent, even the term sex magic is redundant:
ultimately the sexual act is a magical act, although like
everythingelse,itcanbeperformedbadly,degraded,abused,
andunappreciated.Violenceandcoerciondestroyalltraceof
the sacred.
Thisisn’ttosuggestthatmagicisallaboutbeingfruitful
andmultiplying.Theemphasisisoncontroloverreproduct-
ivecyclessothattheindividualretainshealthandhappiness.
Magic provides a vast repertoire of spells for fertility. The
earliestmagicalsystemsarealsointrinsicallyconnectedtothe
earliestmedicalsystems:holisticsystemsdon’trigidlydistin-
guish between the two. Great emphasis was also placed on
botanicalstopreventandsometimesendpregnancywhenit
wasn’tdesired.Manyofthemostfamousandancientwitch-
spirits like Hecate, Kybele, Artemis, and Baba Yaga are also
masterherbalists.Perhapsfertilityspellsarebestunderstood
asreproductivecontrolspells;spellsdesignedtopermitcon-
ception when and if one desired.
Fertilityisacapacitythatexistssothatitmaybedrawn
uponasdesiredandwhendesired.Inasensethatcapacityfor
fertilityissynonymouswithone’scapacityformagic.Youmay
not wish to cast magic spells every day but you want the
powertodosowhenyouchoose.Likewiseyoumaynotwish
tobecomepregnantthisyearorever,butifyouchangeyour
mind, you want the capacity to fulfill your desires.
Despitetalesoflegendaryfishwithsuchintensefertility
power that even virgins and men who consume them con-
ceive, there is not one spell here for a virgin birth. Fertility
magicrequiressex:itisagiventhatanyspellsareaccompan-
iedbytheactualactofprocreation.Nomatterhowpowerful
yourmagic,nomatterhowsplendidandrareyourmaterials,
ifyou’renotaccompanyingfertilityspellswithwell-timedsex,
they can’t work.452/901
Despite all this talk of sex and procreation, fertil-
ity spells aren’t limited to people wishing to have
children. They may be used to enhance and stim-
ulate artistic creativity as well as actual concep-
tion and birth. Adapt these spells to suit your
needs.
Spells for Conception
The boundaries between magic and traditional botanical
medicineareoftenfluid;nowhereisthismoretrueorcrucial
thaninfertilitymagic.PleaseconsultthesectionintheEle-
mentsofMagicSpellsregardingbotanicalsafety.Botanicals,
unlikevisualizationsforinstance,alwayshaveanactualphys-
icaleffectonthebody.Manybotanicalsusedtopromotefer-
tilityintheseriouslyinfertileareunsafeduringpregnancy,es-
pecially early pregnancy. Be very careful and choose your
spells wisely. Topical application of an herb, for instance in
bathsormassageoils,mayhaveeffectsasstrongasoreven
stronger than internal application. As a general rule, essen-
tial oils are not safe during pregnancy, especially early
pregnancy.453/901
Animals of Fertility
Animal of Fertility Spell: Fly
I know an old woman who swallowed a fly,
I don’t know why she swallowed a fly…
Well,yes,wedoknowwhy.Itwasoncebelievedthatwomen
couldconceivebyswallowingflies.Fairytaleheroesareof-
ten conceived in this manner.
Flieswereunderstoodassoulsofthedeadlookingfora
new incarnation. Souls were once believed able to travel
betweenlivesininsectform.TheoriginalBaal-Zebub,Phil-
istinespiritandpsychopomp,laterdemonizedasBeelzebub,
was not only Lord of the Flies but also Shepherd of Souls,
leading them to new incarnations.
1. Incorporate this imagery into spell visualization,
tohelpmanifestyourdesiresinreality.No,don’t
swallow real flies: find more appetizing ones.
2. Mold marzipan or chocolate into the shape of flies.
3. Swallow one per visualization and see yourself
filled with the soul of the child you desire.
Animal of Fertility Spell: Frog
A more active fertility spell incorporates the use of Zuni
carved fetishes. A frog fetish is required; one carved from
shell is especially potent for this purpose.454/901
1. Bringthefrogtobedwithyou;otherwisekeepitin
a jar or bag.
2. Feeditatregularlyscheduledintervalstoactivate
andmaintainitspower.Traditionallycornpollen
wasofferedbutbitsoffoodmayalsobeused,or
whatever inspiration suggests.
3. Speak to the frog; tell it your heart’s desires.
Animal of Fertility Spell: Rabbit
ModernHalloweencardsinvariablydepictthewitchaccom-
paniedbyablackcat,butonceuponatimewitches’famili-
arswereavariedlot.Themostpopularfamiliarduringthe
BurningTimeswasbelievedtobearabbit.Thisassociation
derives from the rabbit’s perceived affinity with the moon
(many cultures see a rabbit in the moon) and as the totem
animalbelongingtomanyspiritsofwomen’sprimalpower.
And we all know the habits of the rabbits…
Thisisaneasy,discreetspell:begintocollectrabbitim-
ages. Surround yourself with them. Keep silent about your
intent,whyyou’recollectingthem.Discussingitweakensthe
spell.Otherscollectimagesofbears,pigs,dwarfs,orfairies,
so why not rabbits? The rabbits will eventually begin to
cometoyou,multiplyingasrabbitsarewonttodo.During
the Full Moon, take your rabbits outside, cast a circle of
them,sitinside,exposedtothemoonbeams,andseeyourself
multiplying, too.455/901
Animal of Fertility Spell: Snake Bag
InthetaleofAdamandEveintheGardenofEden,thesnake
isn’tnecessarilythethirdparty.Onceuponatime,somesay,
snakeswerebelieved,metaphoricallyandmagicallyatleast,
topossessthepowertoimpregnatewomenandactivatecon-
ception. Whether that’s true or not, snakes remain pro-
foundlyaffiliatedwithwomen’sfertilityandgeneralrepro-
ductivehealth.Awoman’ssnakepowerisherfertilitypower.
This amulet bag attempts magical activation.
Verymanybotanicalsarenamedinhonorofserpents,
somanytheyleadtoconfusion.Manyareusedtherapeutic-
ally to remedy various aspects of women’s reproductive
health; however, this is a magic spell. Merely carry the
botanicals,donotconsume.Manyofthesebotanicalsareun-
safe if consumed by pregnant women and no medicine
should be used without expert supervision.
Gatherasmanyasyoucanandcarryinaniridescent
beaded bag. Botanicals include the two black snake
roots—black cohosh and Serpentaria—rattlesnake root,
rattlesnake master, adders tongue, snake weed (bistort),
snakehead,andmanyothers.Ifyoufindanunnamedroot
ortwigthatresemblesaserpent,addthattoo.Snakecharms
andcarvedstonefetishesmayalsobeincorporated.Apiece
offreelyshedsnakeskinmaybeaddedaswell.Carrythebag
toenhanceandboostfertilityandpsychicpower.Sleepwith
it beneath your pillow.456/901
Astarte Oil
The name “Astarte” is believed to mean “the filled womb.”
Thenamemayrefertoanindependentdeityoritmaybean-
other name for the Semitic deity, Anat. Either way, the au-
thorsoftheBibleviewedherwithreprobation;sheheldano-
toriousreputationforencouragingeroticritesandindepend-
ent women. The oil named in her honor is believed to pro-
mote personal fertility.
Essential oil of coriander
Essential oil of jasmine
Essential oil of myrrh
Essential oil of petitgrain or neroli
Rose attar
Blendalltheingredientsaboveintoabottlefilledwithsweet
almondandjojobaoils.Ifdesired,addcowriesorhennatwigs
and blossoms to the oil.
Because many essential oils are not safe during preg-
nancy,especiallyinthefirstmonths,reservethisoilforma-
gical uses such as dressing candles and charms.
Astarte Oil Spell (1) Candle
Dressing
1. Obtain a human figure candle that represents you.
2. Carveitwithyourname,birthday,identifyingin-
formation, affirmations, and desires.457/901
3. DressthecandlewithAstarteOil,particularlythe
abdominal and genital areas.
4. An optional step is to roll the candle in henna
powder.
5. Burn the candle.
Astarte Oil Spell (2) Personal
Dressing
Many botanicals that influence fertility appear to create a
balance:theyencouragefertilityifyou’renotpregnantbut
canhavetheoppositeeffectifyouare.Ifyou’resureyou’re
notpregnant,rubtheoilonyourthighspriortosextoma-
gically enhance possibility of conception.
AllAstarteOilspellsmaybeaccompaniedbyspiritualpetition
directed towards Astarte.
Basil Spells
Basil is considered a fertility promoter both physically and
symbolically.Ateamadefromitsleavesrelievessuppressed
menstruation.Itisalsoatraditionalcomponentofinfertility
repair magic spells.
Basil Spell (1) Living Plants
Basil’s very presence is believed to enhance fertility. Plant
basilaroundthehomeormaintainabundantpottedplants.458/901
Placebasilplantsinwindowboxesorbesidethedoortosig-
nal your wish for fertility to Earth’s spirit forces.
Basil Spell (2) Basil Boughs
Hangfragrantboughsofbasiloverthebedtoenhancesuc-
cessfulconception.Keepthebasilfresh,green,andaromatic:
replace with fresh boughs as needed.
Basil Spell (3) Fertility Diet
Add basil to your diet—a perfect excuse for pesto. Dine on
basil and make love by the light of red candles.
Bed Spells
Thebedisthealtaronwhichmagicalritesoccur.Treatitthe
way you would any sacred altar: spiritually cleansing, orna-
menting, and empowering it, demarcating it as enchanted
space.Spellsincorporatetheconjugalbedasawayofpromot-
ing fertility.
Bed Spell (1) Fruits and Nuts
ArecommendationfromthetimeoftheChineseHandynasty
(206 BCE–220 CE) is to scatter dates and chestnuts on the
bed to stimulate conception. The presence of the dates and459/901
chestnuts on the bed stimulates the aura of fertility;
however, making love on the bed before removing them or
changing the sheets can be incorporated into the spell.
Bed Spell (2) Iron
Thebeditselfcanimpactfertility.Anironbedoffersspiritual
protectionagainstalldangersofthenightwhilegenerating
and radiating fertility energy while you sleep.
For maximum effectiveness fumigate the bed with
cleansingincense,hangcharmsandtalismansfromthebed,
and spend a lot of time lying in it.
Botanicals of Fertility
Plantscontainingextramagicalfertility-boostingpoweroften
reveal themselves by their resemblance to human genitalia,
affiliation with the moon, or by the extravagant quantity of
theirseeds.Theseplantsinclude:assortedsnakeroots,black-
eyed peas, corn, figs, jasmine, lilies, lotuses, melons, moon-
flowers, mugwort, assorted nuts, olives, pomegranates, pop-
pies, pumpkins, roses, and wheat.
Botanical Fertility Bistort Spell
Bistort is also known as dragonwort or snakeweed. Carry
the dried root to promote conception.460/901
Botanical Fertility Bottlebrush
Spell
Place bottlebrush blossoms in the bedroom to promote
fertility.
Botanical Fertility Candle Spell
Hollowouttheinsideofavulva-shapedcandle.Stuffitfullof
aselectionofbasicbotanicalsoffertility.(Fruitsandveget-
ables are highly represented among these; use leaves,
flowers,anddriedseedsratherthanthefruitorvegetableit-
self.) Then burn the candle.
Candle Spells
Candle magic may be used to stimulate fertility and preg-
nancy.Redcandlesaretypicallychosenforfertilityspells.Any
candle may be used, but figure candles may be particularly
appropriate: either an individual human figure, to represent
the spell-caster, or a joint male-and-female figure candle.
Other powerful candle choices include red cats and red
witchesaswellassnakecandlesandcandlesintheshapeof
hearts or genitalia.461/901
Candle Spell (1) Red Candles
Britishfolkhealersrecommendburningredcandlesbefore,
during, and after sex to enhance chances of conception. (If
you’rereallyseriousaboutgettingpregnant,justkeepthose
redcandlesburningwheneverit’ssafeandappropriate.)Al-
though you can if you like, it’s not even necessary to carve
and dress the candles; just keep them burning brightly.
Althoughthisspellstandsalone,itcanalsobeincorpor-
ated into any other fertility spell as extra enhancement.
Candle Spell (2) Red Witch
The traditional image of the Halloween witch still proudly
displays the emblems of women’s reproductive magic:
womb-like iron cauldron and triangular peaked hat. When
witches weren’t riding on broomsticks, whose form unites
the principles of male and female generative energy, they
rodethroughtheskyinmortarsandpestleslikeBabaYaga,
or set sail at sea in sieves, oyster shells, and egg-shells, all
imagesofwomen’sreproductivepower,andallcomponents
of fertility spells.
Candlesintheshapeofredwitchesmayrepresentalit-
eralwomanorwitch,buttheyarealsousedtorepresentwo-
men’s primal magical powers, the metaphysical traditions
derivingfromthemysteriesofbirthandmenstruation.The
red witch possesses long-forgotten and suppressed magical
secrets that might perhaps assist you in your quest,
whateveritis.Burnredwitchcandlestotapintothatpower
and discover the magical secrets and power hidden within
you.462/901
1. Write your deep needs or desires on a piece of
paper.
2. Carveanddressaredwitchcandle,usingAstarte
Oil or another oil of your choice.
3. Place the paper under the witch and burn the
candle.
4. When the candle has burned down completely,
buryallspellremnantsinEarthorcarrythemina
mojo bag tied around your waist.
Date Spells
Thisisatwo-partspellforacouplethatwishestoconceive.
Either part of the spell may be cast independently, but they
work best in conjunction.
Date Spell (1)
This allegedly boosts a woman’s reproductive capacity: a
manfeedsdatesbyhandtothewomanhehopeswillbethe
motherofhischildren.Reserveandcleansethedatepitsto
be used in Date Spell 2.
Date Spell (2)
The man should now carry the cleansed date pits in a red
conjure bag for enhanced fertility and sexual power. (Al-
thoughasimilarspellexistsforenhancedvirilityalone,his463/901
fertilityisallegedlyunaffectedunlesshehasactuallyputthe
dates into the woman’s mouth.)
Earth Spell
Once upon a time, women engaged in magic ritual to en-
hancethefertilityoftheEarth.Ifyou’reinneed,Earthcan
repaythefavor.However,notalldirtisbelievedtopossess
equal fertility-activating magic power.
1. Gatherahandfulofdirtfromnearthedoorwayof
a bordello.
2. Gatherahandfulofdirtthat’sbeendislodged(dug
up) by a bull’s horns.
3. Gatherahandfulofdirtthat’sbeendislodgedbya
boar’s tusks.
4. Place them in a red conjure bag and carry with
you.
Earth Spell Enhanced
This spell derives from traditional offerings to the Hindu
deity,Durga.Durga,warriorspiritofprotection,ridesupon
a tiger, doing battle with demons.
Createthebagasabove,butaspartofapetitionoffer-
tilitydirectedtowardDurga.Bringittooneofhershrinesor
dedicate it to her upon a personal altar.464/901
Egg Spells
Eggs,forobviousreasons,rankamongthemostancientand
powerfuloffertilitysymbols,andareincorporatedintomany
spells.
Egg Spell (1) Candle
Create your own strong, powerful egg.
1. Firstmakethecandlemold:gentlypunchasmall
hole in the large end of a raw egg.
2. Use a cuticle scissor to cut a small circle of egg-
shell.(Buyadozeneggs;youmayhavetopractice
a bit.)
3. Empty the egg into a bowl: use as desired.
4. Gentlywashtheinsideoftheshellwithwater.The
membraneandallcontentsmustbethoroughlyre-
moved. Allow it to dry completely.
5. Prepare the wax. (You may also add tiny fertility
charms or herbs.)
6. Usetheeggcartonasaholder.Placetheeggshell,
hole-end up, in the carton.
7. Pour in liquid wax, reserving a little. (When it’s
halffull,youmayaddtinyseedbeads,charms,or
herbsifyouchoose,althoughthecandleiseffect-
ive without them.) Let the wax harden overnight.
8. Next day: gently heat the reserved wax until liquid.
9. Gently chip away the shell, exposing your candle.465/901
10. Heatanicepickorsimilarsharpthintool:putit
through the center of the candle and quickly
thread with a wick.
11. Fill the hole with the hot wax.
12. Decorate. Keep as an amulet or to burn in a spell.
Egg Spell (2)
1. Withapin,carefullypierceeachendofarawegg.
(In some variants of this spell, the male partner
must pierce the holes.)
2. The man and woman kiss.
3. Placetheeggbetweenyou,holdingtheegggently
in both mouths, each taking an end. (No hands!)
4. The man blows egg out of the shell into the wo-
man’s mouth. (How easy or difficult this is, de-
pends upon egg and people.)
5. She swallows the egg.
6. Carefully set the shell aside. (Don’t break it.)
7. Have sex.
8. Wheneveryou’reready—there’snorush—takethe
empty eggshell outdoors together and bury it in
Earth,atleastseveninchesdeep.(Ifnotpossible,
buryitinitsownflower-potandenhancewithfer-
tility plants.)
Egg Spell (3)
Eating an egg with a double yolk, if you can find one, al-
legedly produces fertility. Likewise, finding a fish within466/901
another fish bestows tremendous fertility power. (And if
there’samagicringinsidethatfish,you’rethestarofyour
very own fairy tale and should expect miracles to occur!)
Fertility Crystal Bath
Fillabathwithasmuchrainwateraspossible.Placemoon-
stonesandquartzcrystalsinthetub(makesurethecrystals
are large enough so there’s no danger of falling down the
drain!) and bathe, ideally in the moonlight.
Fertility Doll Spell
The use of dolls to magically enhance fertility and activate
conceptionwasoncecommonaroundtheworld,fromnative
NorthAmericatoChina,ItalytoIndia.Vestigesofthesetra-
ditionssurvive,notleastinthedollsthattraditionallyorna-
menttheweddingcake.Fertilitydollmagicremainsmostvi-
tal,however,intraditionalAfrica.Althoughthestyleofdoll
varies, the spell is virtually identical wherever fertility doll
magic is practiced.
Createorobtainadollbaby.Thedolldoesnothavetobe
life-like unless it’s important to you. Dolls are crafted from
wood, clay, nuts, bones, corn cobs, fabric, metal: any con-
ceivable material. If working with a mass-produced doll,
embellishitwithseashells,beads,seeds,andfertilitycharms
to enhance its power.
Thisdollisyourbaby.InAfrica,dollsaccompanytheir
“mothers”everywhere,sometimesdiscreetly,sometimesnot.
The doll is fed, bathed, and cared for every day, never left467/901
unattended,asifitwereafleshandbloodchild.Thismaybe
understood in various ways:
• The doll is the seed from which the actual child
grows
• The spell magically stimulates conception
• Your actions indicate your desire to the spirit
powersandalsodemonstratewhatagoodmoth-
er you’ll be, given the opportunity
Like a real baby, the doll is not abandoned, whether preg-
nancyoccursornot.Thedollmaybetreatedastheresulting
child’ssibling,orgiventothechildasatoyoramulet.Asuc-
cessfuldollmaybepassedontoanotherinfertilewomanto
work its magic, while a doll that is not successful may be
buried with its “mother” when she dies.
Fertility Incense
1. Gatherapinchofdirtfromafertilityshrineoruse
graveyard dirt from your ancestor’s grave.
2. Mixwithdriedcrumbledredrosepetalsandhibis-
cus flowers.
3. Sprinkle on lit charcoal and burn.
Fertility Mojos
Conjurebagsdesignedtoenhanceandempowerfertilityare
treatedslightlydifferentlytothestandardbag.Thestandard
mojo hand is a red flannel drawstring bag; however, for
fertility-enhancingpurposes,redsilkorbeadedbagsaremost468/901
potent. You should wear the bag hanging between your
breasts or over the abdominal area, rather than carrying in
your pocket, and sleep with the bag beneath your pillow or
hang it over the bed in which you make love.
Fertility Mojo (1) M is for Mother
Their first initial isn’t what really links these particular
botanicals;ratherit’stheirassociationwithfertilityandthe
moon.
1. Add the following to a conjure bag:
Mandrake
Mistletoe
Motherwort
Mugwort
2. Wear or carry as desired.
Be cautious with mandrake and mistletoe, both are poten-
tially very toxic.
Fertility Mojo (2) Charm Bag
1. Fill a mojo bag with fertility charms: acorns,
mistletoe twigs, cowrie shells or pearls, or silver
charms in the shape of rabbits or moons.
2. This is a spell-in-progress. Add charms as they
appear.
3. DresswithAstarteOilforfertilityandVanVanto
make your dreams come true.469/901
Fertility Potion (1) Couple
A Romany fertility potion is designed to be shared by pro-
spective parents together. Time this spell to coincide with
either the New or Full Moon, whichever suits your repro-
ductive cycles best.
1. Make an infusion with spring water and comfrey.
2. Combine with equal parts brandy.
3. Pour into a single glass, which the man and wo-
man drink together.
4. Drink it in bed; make love immediately
afterwards.
5. Repeat three nights in a row.
If it doesn’t work, wait until next month’s corresponding
moon phase before attempting this method again.
Fertility Potion (2) Dad’s Spitting
Image
Aprospectivefathermaychooseoneoftwowaystoprepare
this fertility potion for the prospective mother of his child:
1. Eitherdropburninghotcoalsintospringwateror
spit into it (think of“spitting image of his father”).
2. While the woman drinks the water, the man
chants:
I am the flame, you are the coals!
I am rain, you are the water!470/901
Fertility Potion (3) Men
AMoroccanpotiontoincreasemalefertilityandsexualvig-
or invokes the fertility-inducing prowess of the egg.
1. Breakaraweggeverymorningandswallowitbe-
fore breakfast for 40 consecutive days.
2. Immediatelyafterconsumingtheegg,filltheshell
with olive oil and drink.
Results should be apparent at the conclusion of the 40 days.
Ifthepossibilityofsalmonellagivescauseforpause,a
differentMoroccanrecommendationisformentodrinkjust
olive oil alone to enhance the procreative powers.
Fertility Potion (4) Rose Hydrosol
Truerosehydrosolisusedasawoman’sfertilitypotion.You
caneitherdrinksmallportionsbyitself,orblendrosehydro-
sol with spring water or champagne and drink.
Fertility Potion (5) Ruby
1. Placearubyinaglassandcoveritwithspringwa-
ter on the night of the Full Moon.
2. Leave it overnight, exposed to the moonbeams.
3. In the morning, drink the water.471/901
Fertility Spell (1) Coconut
Placeacoconutonanaltarorsituatedinafocalpositionin
the bedroom to enhance female fertility.
Fertility Spell (2) Fruits
Placed dried longans and lichee fruit under your bed.
Fertility Spell (3) Poppies
Today, poppies are most associated with opium and illicit
drugs, however in ancient days poppies’ associations with
fertility were equally strong. Poppies demonstrate their af-
finity for human reproduction via their bulging seedpods.
Drytheseedpods.Pierceandstringthemontoredcordand
wearor hang over the bed as a fertility enhancer.
Fertilitypower,likemagicalenergy,iscontagiousandmaybe
obtained via enchanted methods of transference.
Fertility Tree Spells
Trees are particularly associated with fertility. Any tree may
have fertility power because of its phallic appearance rising
from Earth (or entering her); however, some trees are more
associated with generative power than others.472/901
• Treesmostassociated withfertilitybearfruitor
nuts. The most potent, such as the orange tree,
flower and fruit simultaneously. Trees bearing
fruitsandnutsresemblinggenitaliaorsomehow
suggesting the sexual act are the most potent of
all:figs,peaches,pomegranates,andwalnutsfor
instance.Treeswithmilkysapalsoradiatefertil-
ity power
• Willowshaveparticularlystrongfertilityassoci-
ationsbecauseoftheiraffinityforwater,theele-
mentmostassociated withfertility,andalsobe-
cause they are under the dominion of Hecate,
spirit of magic, fertility, and healing
• Certain trees are redolent of fertility because of
theirassociationswithspecificspiritsoffertility;
the tree is a conduit to the spirit’s power and
blessings.Examplesincludeappletrees(Aphrod-
ite) and pines (Dionysus)
Fertility Tree Spell (1) Basic
Toavailyourselfofthetree’sfertilitypower,makeloveun-
deritbythelightoftheFullMoon.Theritualmaybethat
simple, or you may embellish as you please.
Fertility Tree Spell (2) Personal
Relationship
Enhanceandintensifyanyspellbydevelopingarelationship
with a specific tree.473/901
1. Choose an existing tree or transplant a grown
specimen.
2. Nurture the tree. Develop a relationship with the
tree, or with the resident tree spirit or presiding
spirit, however you best understand it.
3. Embellish and decorate this tree.
4. Chargefertilityamulets,charms,andspellingredi-
entsbyhangingthemonthetreeorplacingthem
atitsbaseovernight,especiallyinthelightofthe
Full Moon.
5. Offer libations to the tree.
6. Sleep under the tree.
7. If possible, make love under the tree.
Fertility Tree Spell (3) Apples
AppletreesaresacredtoAphroditeandfigureprominently
inallspellsthatfallunderherdominion,especiallythosefor
love and fertility. Mix water with apple tree sap and wash
your face and hands with it.
Fertility Tree Spell (4) May Pole
TheMayPolederivesfromancientfertilityrites.Createyour
ownritualswithlivingtrees.Thisspellisextrapotentifcast
during one of Earth’s fertility power days: May Day, Mid-
summer’s Day or Valentine’s Day.
1. Wrap scarlet ribbons around a tree, visualizing
your desire all the while.474/901
2. Enhance the spell by ornamenting the tree with
fertility-inspiredcharms,smalldolls,ordecorated
eggshells.
3. For maximum effect, make love under the tree.
Gender Spells
Sometimesconceptionisn’tenough.Foronereasonoranoth-
er,achildofaspecificgenderisdesired.Variousmagicspells
attempt to fulfill your desires:
• To conceive a boy, place a dagger in your
headboard
• Toconceiveagirl,putadaggerintheheadboard
with a bay laurel wreath around it
• To conceive a boy, place arrows under the bed
• To conceive a boy, charge a small gold knife
charm with other yang materials. Wear it as a
charm around your neck
• Toconceiveagirl,placeaspindleunderthebed
or mattress
Grow-a-Seed Spell
Themostbasicfertilityspellofallmaynotseemparticularly
magicaltoourjadedeyes:growplantsfromseed.Whathas
evolved into a child’s kindergarten project was once per-
ceived as an act fraught with mystery and magic. Do not
transfer mature plants or cuttings: it is crucial that you475/901
sprout the seeds and nurture the plants. This may be done
directly on Earth or in pots within your home.
The choice of plants is entirely up to you; however,
plants that are metaphysically associated with fertility will
increase the power of the spell. Furthermore, time spent in
thepresenceofplantsradiantwithfertilitypowercanonly
be beneficial.
Growplantsthatcanassistyouinthequestforconcep-
tion or plants that will serve as herbal remedies. By doing
this,yousetupasymbioticrelationship,atruealliance;each
ofyoudependsupontheother.Talktotheplant;tellitwhat
you need it to perform for you. Herbal remedies grown in
thismannerwillbemorepotentthananythingyoucanpur-
chase.Faithfullykeepagardeningdiary.Eventuallywithin
itspagesyoumaydiscoverparallelsandcluestoyourown
condition.
Holed Stone Spells
The precious gem most associated with fertility is the ruby.
However,preciousgemsarenottheonlypotentmagicalfer-
tility tools. The humble holed stone is a powerful fertility
booster.Holedstones,alsocalledholeystonesorhagstones,
are pebbles or small stones containing natural perforations.
Only Mother Nature can create them. If you have a holed
stone, for fertility purposes:
• Wear it around your neck on a red or silver cord
• Hang it from your bed on a red or silver cord
• Carry it in a medicine bag476/901
Holed Stone Spell (1) Extra
Enhancement
1. Sprinkle rosemary onaholed stone, especially in
the hole.
2. Carryitinamedicinebagorwearitaroundyour
neck.
3. Repeat the ritual to coincide with the New Moon.
Holed Stone Spell (2)
Notallholedstonesaresmallenoughtoweararoundyour
neck. Europe and the British Isles are dotted with huge
standing stone formations, some erected, some natural,
somewithholes.Theseholeshavetraditionallybeenusedfor
allmannerofhealingbutparticularlyforprovidinganden-
hancing personal fertility. Getting to one of these fertility
power spots may be difficult; the ritual is simple.
1. Journey to a holed standing stone.
2. Make your wish, prayer, and/or petition.
3. Climb through the hole.
Midsummer’s Spells
Midsummer’s Eve coincides with the Eve of the feast day of
SaintJohntheBaptist.ThedatealsocoincideswiththeSum-
merSolstice,theheightofthesun’spowers,andtheancient
RomanfestivalofCeres,spiritofEarth’sgenerosity.Thedate477/901
haspowerfulassociationswithfertilityrites,asexemplifiedby
the bonfires traditionally lit on Midsummer’s Eve or Saint
John’s Day.
Thesebonfiresandaccompanyingfertilityriteswereonce
commonthroughoutEurope.Midsummer’sEveisalsosacred
totheIrishsolardeity,Aine,aspiritofloveandfertility,and
thedayhasstrong Celtic associations. Thefertility aspect of
the holiday, especially the bonfires, was very popular
throughouttheMediterranean,especiallyinGreece,Italy,and
Spain but also across the water in Algeria, Morocco, and
Tunisia, although there associations are made with Fatima
rather than Saint John.
Among the reasons given for the bonfires during the
MiddleAgeswasthattheypreventeddragonsoftheairfrom
their annual revelry, which inevitably concluded in wanton
copulation in the skies and the subsequent pollution of
springs and wells from drops of dragon ejaculate.
Another theory is that the John the Baptist celebrated
amidst fertility rites is not the ascetic John the Baptist who
wandered the Judean wilderness wearing his mugwort belt,
livingonlocustsandwildhoney,andperformingbaptismsin
the Jordan River. Instead the ancient Semitic fertility spirit
Adonis may be lurking underneath, wearing the syncretized
mask of the respectable saint.
Althoughthedateitselfispropitiousforanyfertilityma-
gic,it’sthebonfires,therevelryamongthem,andtheattend-
ant herbs that hold particular value.
Midsummer’s Spells (1) Basic
Makingloveamongthebonfiresisbelievedextremelyauspi-
cious for fertility. However, as public sex hasn’t been478/901
condonedincenturies,buildyourownprivatebonfiretocel-
ebrate the day and conduct private revels.
Midsummer’s Spells (2)
Not just any random plants are arbitrarily chosen for the
bonfire.Traditionallyspecific,stronglyaromaticplantsare
used: chamomile, chervil, pennyroyal, rue, Saint John’s
Wort,thyme,geranium(thefragrantherb,notthebrightred
flower), and mugwort. When burned, their smoke radiates
fertility power.
1. Expose yourself to the smoke of the bonfires.
2. Ifthisisn’tpossible,chooseaselectionofMidsum-
mer’s herbs, grind and powder them and burn
them as Midsummer’s Eve incense.
Warning: Make sure that you are not pregnant; several of
theherbsmaypositivelyinfluenceobstructedfertilitybutare
not safe for use or exposure during pregnancy itself.
Midsummer’s Spells (3) Bonfire
Wood
AlthoughbonfiresarebuiltfromherbsintheMediterranean
region,CelticregionsofEuropemaybuildbonfiresofcare-
fullychosenwood.Thisversion,forexample,suggestsnine
sacred Druid woods.
Build the fires using the following woods:479/901
Apple
Ash
Birch
Elm
Hawthorn
Hazel
Oak
Rowan
Thorn
Collect the ashes once the fires have burned out.
Milagros
“Milagros” means “miracles” in Spanish. It’s the term now
mostpopularlyusedtorefertotheancientcustomofex-vo-
tos. The magical concept of reciprocity figures extremely
prominently in the Spiritual petition process:
• Onerequestsafavororblessing,sometimesoffer-
ingagifttomarktherequestbutalwaysspecify-
ingwhatwillbepaidforreceiptoftherequested
“miracle”
• Having received the favor or blessing, one then
renders payment
Itiswisesttomaintaincontrolovertwoareasofthisprocess:
inform the Spirit precisely what blessing or favor is desired.
Informthemspecificallyandexplicitlyinwhatformpayment
will be made and precisely when.
Milagros are used for both purposes. Milagros are tiny
depictions,usuallybutnotalwaysformedfrommetal,ofthe480/901
part of the anatomy that needs repair or healing. These are
traditionallybroughttotheshrineatthesametimeasapeti-
tionismade.Theconceptofthemilagroorex-votoisancient.
They have been found in Greek, Celtic, and Iberian healing
shrines.Prehistoricobjectsthataredeadringersforex-votos
have also been discovered, although without context or ex-
planationit’simpossibletoprovewhattheyare.Thecustom
remains most vigorous in Latin America. Shrines typically
haveanareareservedforyoutopinyourownex-voto,either
avelvet-covered boardorsometimesonthevotiveimageit-
self, particularly if the image is associated with miracle cures.
Milagrosarealsoofferedtooffertestimonialofmiracles
received.Thisoftenevolvesintopaymentforthedesiredmir-
acle.Acheapmetalorwaxcharmisinitiallyoffered,withthe
promisethatifthemiracleisreceived,agoldencharm,mini-
ature or life-sized, will be then presented.
Specific milagros represent specific ailments. A pair of
metal eyes is donated for eye trouble. A leg or an arm is
offered in exchange for healing the appropriate appendage.
Shapesrepresentingfertilityandthequestforachildare
both literal and metaphoric:
• Uterus
• Ovaries
• Heart(notananatomicallycorrectheartbutthe
Valentine’s Day shape), because it can be syn-
onymouswiththevulvaandbecauseitrepresents
the love you’d offer a child
• A baby
• A hedgehog (because of the old European belief
that the womb resembles a hedgehog)481/901
Ifyouhavenoaccessorbeliefinshrines,tieragsormilagros
to your own tree or well.
Chargethecharmswithyourdesirebyanyorallofthefollow-
ing methods:
1. Holding them in your hands and concentrating
hard on your desire.
2. Sleeping with them under your pillow.
3. Weeping onto them until they’re wet from your
tears.
4. Carryinginamojobagforsevendaysandnights,
until charged with your personal energy.
Nut and Seed Spells
Nuts and seeds represent the property of germination. Eat
themifthisishealthyandappropriateforyou.Carrythemin
charmbags.Placebowlsofnutsinplainsighttoradiatefertil-
ity power.
Any nuts or seeds may be used in fertility magic, though as
usual some are more potent than others:
• Oak galls, known as serpent eggs, are trans-
formed into magical charms and amulets
• Acornsgatheredatnightholdthestrongestfertil-
ity power. The Full Moon enhances the power;
look for an oak with particularly abundant
acorns
• Chinese magic exploits puns and other word
games,forinstancethederivationoftheChinese
name for peanut: “hua sheng.” Hua alludes to
“great variety,” sheng to “give birth.” Bowls of482/901
peanuts are thus frequently displayed at wed-
dings or in the home to radiate fertility power
Nut Spell (1) Jupiter’s Nuts
The Latin word for walnuts, “juglans,” refers to Jupiter’s
testicles. Walnuts and chestnuts are particularly beneficial
for men’s fertility magic.
1. Place bowls of nuts in plain sight, to radiate and
transfer their energy.
2. Eat them as appropriate.
3. Replenish with fresh nuts as needed.
Nut Spell (2) Bath
Thetransferoffertilityenergyisalsoattemptedviaabath,
for the purpose of boosting either male or female fertility.
1. Steep five chestnuts in a pot of water for five
hours.
2. Strain,buryingthenutsoutside,butreservingthe
liquid.
3. Add this to your bathwater.483/901
Nut and Seed Charms
Seeds and nuts may also be used for adornment. These
simplecharmsmakepowerfulamulets:theprocessofmak-
ing them is as magically charged as wearing them.
1. Makeanecklacefromacorns,sunflower,pumpkin
andmelonseeds,anddriedcornkernelsinavari-
ety of colors: red, yellow, blue, and black.
2. Soak the material in warm water until softened.
(At least an hour.)
3. Using a sharp needle, string them on strong
thread,ideallyred,black,orgreen.(Itmaybene-
cessary to drill holes in the acorns.)
4. Pass the charms through the smoke of frankin-
censeandmyrrhtofurtherempower,ifyouwish,
although this isn’t necessary.
5. Wear your charms.
Ocean Waves Spell
Infertilityderivesfrommanycauses.Wherephysicalcauses
areelusive,spiritualcausesmaybeseen.Whilesomespirits
healinfertility,otherscauseit,sometimesoneandthesame
spirit.Oceanwater,aswellasthatfromhealingsprings,is
believed to cure infertility inflicted by djinn and other spirits.
Go to the sea. Let seven waves pass over your body to
removeevilinfluencesandobstacles.(Thenumberofwaves
depends upon which side of the Mediterranean you’re on.
Moroccanmagicfavorsseven.IdenticalspellsexistinSpain484/901
but nine waves are required to accomplish the same
purpose.)
Pinecone Spells
Pineconeslookphallic;they’realsoassociatedwithDionysus
and Kybele, both powerful providers of fertility. Dionysus’
magicwand,thethyrsus,istoppedbyapinecone.Pinecones
arebeneficialforbothmaleandfemalefertility.Becausepine
trees are also magically identified with happy marriages,
pinecones are especially beneficial for those relationships
strained by the stress and anguish of infertility.
Collect baskets of fallen pinecones; look for strong,
healthyonesfilledwithseeds.Placetheminbowlsandbas-
kets in plain sight, to radiate their power and transfer it to
you.
Pinecone Spell (1)
1. Makeawishonapinecone.Holditinyourhands
and charge it with your desires.
2. When you’re ready, toss it into a fire to transmit
your appeal to the spiritual powers that be.
This method may also be used to make a petition to either
Kybele or Dionysus or both.485/901
Pinecone Spell (2)
1. Collect pinecones.
2. Decorate them by dipping them into wax and
glitter.
3. String them onto red cord to make necklaces.
Rainwater Sieve Spell
Althoughterrestrialwater,oceans,springs,lakes,andrivers
are perceived as female powers, rain is metaphysically
likened to semen. It’s difficult to understand at first why
masculine“thundergods”(Zeus,Baal,Thor,Chango)areas-
sociatedwithfertility.It’snotthethunderandthelightning;
it’stheaccompanyingshowersthatfertilizetheEarth.Thun-
dergodsareinvariablypromiscuous:strongrainfertilizesa
lot of land at the same time.
Spells that emphasize immersion in the ocean seek to
draw on female fertility power. Spells involving rainwater
drawonthemasculinepowers,althoughbothtypesofspells
benefit women in particular. Many spells combine yin and
yang, charging rainwater in moonlight, for instance.
Sieveshavetraditional associations withfertility.They
are used similarly in personal fertility spells as well as
weather spells to end drought.
1. Collect rainwater.
2. Keepthecontainertightlysealedintherefrigerat-
or until you have a bright moonlit night.
3. Place the water outside, exposed to the
moonbeams.486/901
4. Pourthiswaterthroughasieveontoawomanwho
wishes to conceive. (If she is naked, this is even
more potent.)
5. Watermaybepouredoverthehead,overthegen-
itals,ordirectedoverthebreasts,accompaniedby
petitions to have a healthy child to nurse.
Saint George Fertility Spell
SaintGeorge’sEveisanextremelypotentnightforfertility
rites. Crusaders encountered Saint George in Semitic West
Asia and brought him home to Europe, where he is most
famousforkillingthedragon.Ordidhe?Andwhyisheso
helpfultowomenwhowishtoconceive?SomebelieveSaint
George to be Baal in disguise. Baal, Semitic weather deity
andbaneofthebiblicalprophets,exemplifiesmalethunder
godswhoraindownfertilityonaparchedregion.Theimage
ofthedragonorgreatsnakeisoftenusedtorepresentmen-
struation,themonthlyheartacheofwomenwishingbutfail-
ing to conceive.
WomenonceflockedtoaSyrianshrinedevotedtoSaint
George.Itsattendantpriestsdevelopedsuchareputationfor
working miracles of conception that suspicious husbands
soonforbadetheirwivestogo,preferringnochildrenatall
to these“miracle”children.
There’snoneedtodiscovertheruinsofthisshrine:Saint
George can assist your quest in the privacy of your own
home.
1. Hang a new white nightgown from a fruitful tree
on Saint George’s Eve.
2. Leave it overnight.487/901
3. Inspectthegarmentinthemorning.Ifanyliving
creatureisfoundwithinit,thewomancanexpect
to conceive before next Saint George’s Day.
To activate the spell put the nightgown on immediately.
Having sex while wearing it wouldn’t hurt either.
Contraception Spells
Therepertoireofcontraceptivespellsisfarsmallerthanthat
devotedtosuccessfulconception.Untilrecently,theemphasis
was on being fruitful and multiplying as much as possible,
rather than the opposite.
Traditional cultures,thesourceofsomuchfertility ma-
gic,havealsohadaccesstoherbalmethodsofbirthcontrol,
makingmagicspellsunnecessary.Magicisamysteriouspro-
cess:youaskforonething,sometimesyougetitandsome-
timesyougetsomethingelse.Conventionalmethodsofcon-
traceptionareusuallymorereliableanddefinitelymorepre-
dictable than magical means.
Magicalcontraceptionisintendedtosupplementanden-
hance more conventional methods of birth control, not re-
placethem.Perhapstheyshouldbeconsideredhistoricspells
orwhattheoldHoodoodrugstorescalled“curios.”Thoseun-
abletouseotherformsofcontraceptionforonereasonoran-
other may find these methods useful, although they should
still be accompanied by close monitoring of reproductive
cycles, if you genuinely care about not getting pregnant.488/901
Bead Spell
1. Mix menstrual blood into clay and form a bead,
piercing it with a needle.
2. Whenthebeadisready,holditinyourhand,and
focus upon remaining childless.
3. Keep this bead in a safe place. Don’t lose it.
4. Wheneveryou’rereadytoconceive,tossthebead
intoariverorspringandletthewaterdissolvethe
bead.
For absolute utmost power, use a girl’s first menstrual blood.
Cooperative Contraceptive Spell
A Moroccan contraceptive spell’s success depends upon co-
operationbetweenamanandawoman.Afewdropsofmen-
strual blood plus either one dried fig or one bead are
required.
1. Cut the dried fig lengthwise.
2. Sprinklethebloodintotheslitorplaceinsidethe
bead’s hole.
3. Themanthenhidesthefiginaplaceunknownto
thewoman.Allegedlyaperiodofsterilitywillre-
main for as long as the fig is hidden.
Tobreakthespell,themanremovesthefigfromitshiding
place and with a flourish, displays it to the woman.489/901
Flax Thread Contraceptive Spell
The original spell would have required the woman to spin
thethread,inthemanner thatfates,fairies,andgoddesses
spin,wieldandseverthethreadoflife.Flaxissacredtosuch
spirits of fertility as Frigg, Hulda, and the Russian spirit
who sometimes masquerades as Saint Paraskeva.
1. Soak flax thread in menstrual blood.
2. Tie ten knots in the thread.
3. Wear it non-stop for nine days and nine nights,
sleeping with it at night.
4. Whentheninedaysandnightsarecomplete,bury
thethreadinacornersaying,“Iburyyoufor[in-
sert the time desired to stay pregnancy-free].”
Hawthorn Spell
Tuck hawthorn leaves under the mattress to magically en-
hance contraception.
Knot Spell
1. Make knots in a cord for contraception, knotting
in your desires, goals, and intentions.
2. Reserve the cord in a safe and private place.
3. Place the cord in a glass of water.
4. Let it soak overnight, then drink the water.
5. When you’re ready to conceive, untie the knots.490/901
Lock and Key Spell
1. Place a lock and key on the floor.
2. Walk in the space between them. Turn around.
Whileturningstate:“WhenIopenthislockagain,
I will successfully conceive.”
3. Turn the key and lock the lock.
4. Keepthelockandkeyinasafeplace.Priortoat-
tempts at conception, you must ritually open the
lock.Happy Home Spells
Homesweethome.Soundsnostalgic,butnowhereasexciting
as gambling, wild sex, fame and fortune—the usual goals of
magicspells.Thatmaybetrue,butwhenallisn’tpeacefulon
thehomefrontitcanbehardtoconcentrateonanythingelse.
Sometimes what you need more than anything is a peaceful
homeandafamilythatdoesn’targue.Magicoffersadvicefor
pouring oil on troubled waters.
SomeHappyHomeSpellsconcernthemselveswithwho’s
in the home; they allegedly provide peace in the family and
createanauraoftranquility.Otherspellsareconcernedwith
thehome—theresidenceordwelling—itself.Inmanycases,in
accordance with the belief that it’s easier to prevent trouble
thanfixit,HappyHomeSpellsaremeanttobeperformedas
soon as or before one moves into a new home.
Basil Happiness Spells
Surroundyourdwellingwithfreshbasilsoastodrawandin-
creasejoywithinthehome,andtostimulatetranquility,har-
mony, cooperation, and peace.
• Grow basil in your garden and around the house
• Place pots of fresh basil by your front entrance
and around the perimeter of your home
• Ifit’snotpossibletogrowbasil,thenplacefresh
basil in a vase in a prominent spot in your kit-
chen,replacingitweeklyorassoonasitstartsto
spoil492/901
• Cookwithitasmuchaspossible,orincorporateit
into spellwork. (Since basil also draws love and
money toward you, this isn’t a painful, difficult
recommendation!)
Blessed Water Spells
Certain magically charged formula waters simultaneously
provide house blessings with space cleansing spells.
Blessed Water Spell (1) Notre
Dame Water
Notre Dame Water promotes peace, calm, and serenity;
summonsbenevolentspiritstoyourhomeanddispersesany
malevolent ones lingering about.
Place a few spoonfuls into open dishes and distribute
through the house. Add more as it evaporates.
Blessed Water Spell (2) Rose of
Jericho Water
Rose of Jericho Water has many uses including healing,
cleansing, and protection. Its presence also encourages
serenity and tranquility.
1. Rehydrate a Rose of Jericho flower, by placing it
into a dish and covering it with water.493/901
2. After the rose blossoms, retain the flower but
change the water weekly.
3. Don’t throw out the old water—it’s packed with
magic power. Use it to attract blessings of peace,
protection, and prosperity to your home.
4. Pourtheoldwateroutontoyourfrontdoorstep,in
anauspiciousshape.Chooseapentacle,hexagram,
crescentmoon,cross,orother.Sprinkletheshape
of a sigil or rune, if you prefer.
Blue Bird of Happiness Spell
Rare blue flowers confer peace and protection on a home.
Growcornflowers, delphiniums, bluebells, andhydrangeas.
Reserve the blossoms; dry, grind, and powder them, and
then sprinkle the powder discreetly through the home.
Dispel Sadness Spell
When a home is filled with oppressive, contagious sadness,
this spell can be very effective.
1. Holdawhitecandleinbothhandswhileyouthink
of all your sorrows and the causes for them.
2. Write these sorrows onto a piece of white paper.
Ideally Dove’s Blood Ink or myrrh-scented red
inkshouldbeused,butdon’tgiveyourselffurther
causeforstressandgrief.Justuseredinkifthat’s
easiest or whatever you have.
3. Anoint the page with honey.494/901
4. Fold it up.
5. Lightthecandle.Usethecandleflametoburnthe
note, while chanting something along the lines of:
IgivemysadnesstotheflamesTheSpiritofFire
eats my grief and pain (Substitute goddess, god,
ladyorlordoffire—whatevercorrespondstoyour
beliefs.Youmayalsosubstitutethenameofafire
spirit, if you choose.)
Family Unity Spells
Thenatureofamagicspell,whetherpositiveormalevolent,is
determinedbyintentratherthanmechanics.Althoughmany
associate hair and nail clippings with malevolent manifesta-
tionsofmagic,vindictivefigurespells,forinstance,theyalso
have benevolent applications. Although these spells ask for
major blessings, they generally use only modest ingredi-
ents—typically intimate items, usually collected under a
mother’s direction, to provide safety, peace, and harmony
among family members.
Family Unity Spell (1) Hair
Clippings
1. Takeasmallhairclippingfromeverymemberof
the family.
2. Roll it up in a leaf, rolling toward you.
3. Fastenitwithastrandofthemother’shair(orthe
father,orwhoeveristheunifyingfocalpointofthe
family).495/901
4. Bury it under a tree.
Family Unity Spell (2) Heal Rifts
Tohealriftsandmaintaintheunityofthefamily,youwill
needonehairfromtheheadofeachpersoninthefamilyor
each person involved in the rift, whatever you deem
appropriate.
1. Braid them and tie together with red silk thread.
2. Wrapthebraidinmoreredsilkthread,windingit
and making seven knots in it.
3. Wrap this in a small square of white silk.
4. Bury this packet at a crossroads.
Family Unity Spell (3) A Peaceful
Home Charm Bag
The ingredients for this spell are:
Asinglestrandofhairfromeachmemberofthe
family (add animal hairs from pets if you
like, too)
BluethreadApieceofangelicarootEssentialoil
of German chamomile
Balm of Gilead buds
Flax seeds
Lavender blossoms
Pink and white rose buds496/901
1. Make a braid with the hair and thread.
2. Use the braid to tie a bow around the angelica
root.
3. Anointtherootwithonedropofchamomileoilfor
every member of the family.
4. Placetheroottogetherwiththeotheringredients
into a sachet or conjure bag.
Flax Seed Spell
Sprinkleflaxseedoverthethresholdtoenddissentandpre-
serve harmony.
Gardenia–Mimosa Spell
1. Make an infused oil of gardenia and mimosa.
2. Rub it on woodwork as appropriate.
3. Soakcottonballsandplacestrategicallyinrooms,
to promote serenity and family harmony.
Happiness Bath
This one is not for pregnant women!
1. Makeaninfusionbypouringboilingwaterovera
bunch of parsley.
2. Strainouttheparsleywhiletheliquidremainshot
and stir in cinnamon honey.
3. Add to your bath.497/901
Happy Home
1. Place dried motherwort in a jar.
2. Surround it with family pictures.
Happy Home Floorwash
Holy Water or Marie Laveau Water
Florida Water
White vinegar
Crushed sweet basil leaves
Crushed lavender blossoms
Cascarilla Powder
1. Pour boiling salted water over the lavender and
sweet basil.
2. Let the botanicals steep for an hour, then strain
out the solids.
3. Addtheliquid,togetherwithallotheringredients
to a bucket filled with floorwash rinse water.
4. Usethiswatertocleanseallentranceareasaswell
as floors and windowsills.
Happy Home Fragrance
Blends
Commerciallypreparedroomfreshenersaretypicallycrafted
from synthetic materials. Who knows what type of powers498/901
theypossess,ifany?HappyHomeSpellsincludewhatmight
be considered magical room fresheners; their fragrances
rangefrompleasanttobeautiful,thoughtheirtruegoalisthe
encouragement of happiness, harmony, and cooperation.
Happy Home Fragrance: Lunar
Power Blend
Addessentialoilsofaloeswood,whitecamphor,andmyrrh
toanaromaburneranddiffusethroughthehometoencour-
age a tranquil, happy atmosphere.
Happy Home Fragrance Blend
Add essential oils of coriander, Roman chamomile, and
spearmint to an aroma burner and diffuse the fragrance
through the home.
Happy Home Herb Blend
Blend yerba santa, spearmint, and cascara sagrada in an
open dish to encourage happiness and cooperative behavior.499/901
Happy Home Kitchen Blend
Fillthehomewiththearomaofcinnamonandcloves.Brew
thedriedspicesinwaterorcidertobringanauraofhappi-
ness and tranquility to the home.
Happy Home Incense
Blendfrankincense,myrrh,andliquidambar(storax)resins.
Burnthemtoclearawaynegativeenergyandtoencourage
happy spirits, in all senses of that word.
Happy Home Oil
Addgardeniapetals,myrrh,andapinchoffive-fingergrass
to blended jojoba and coconut oil, together with a pinch of
salt.
Hearth Spell
Thathappyfeelingofsecurityandcontentmentsofrequently
derivedfromsimplysittingbesideaburninghearthorroar-
ingfireplaceindicatesthatmagicallymoreisgoingonthan
justburningsomewood.Thesubliminalconjunctionofmale
and female primal energy is extremely potent, protective,
and full of blessings. Examples include nailed horseshoes,
hexagrams,mortarsandpestles,locksandkeys.However,a
subtler example was once ever-present: the blazing hearth.500/901
Thehearthitself,orthefireplace,oritsmodernreplacement
thecauldron,representsthefemaleprinciple;firerepresents
themale.Aroaringhearthfireisthusamagicalcauldronof
transformation,fullofpowerandblessings.Hencethedes-
perate fear of ever letting the fire go out.
Atonetime,thehearthwastheheartofthehome.Vari-
ous benevolent spiritual household guardians made their
homesinorunderthehearth.Unfortunatelytodayanever-
present, ever-burning hearth fire is rare.
Lightthefire,eitherinthehearthifyouhaveone,orina
cauldron,andmagicallyevokefeelingsofhappinessandse-
curity.Intensifytheblessingsbytossingmagicalbotanicals
intothefire;includeanyorallofthefollowing:angelica,an-
ise, pine, rosemary, and wisteria.
Home Protection Oil
HomeProtectionOilprovidesspiritualprotectionanden-
courages a serene peaceful atmosphere to prevail in your
home.
Home Protection Oil Spell
1. Anoint areas of the home, especially areas per-
ceived as vulnerable or areas that have suffered
tension and arguments.
2. Reapply the oil once a week or as needed.501/901
Home Protection Spell
1. Collectrocksandpebblesfromyourtravels,espe-
cially places where you felt safe and happy.
2. Charge them in your hands.
3. Keep them in an open terracotta pot.
4. Use to cast circles, for ritual or protection, as
needed.
House Blessing Incense
The advantage of incense is that its fragrance permeates an
area,leavingalasting,lingeringfragrantaura.Burnsufficient
quantitiestoachievethateffect.Concentrateontroublesome
areasfirstorfumigatethewholehome.Benzoinisaresinde-
rivingfromSumatraandThailand.TheancientEgyptiansim-
ported it, favoring it for incense blends they considered
“joyful.” Benzoin encourages a relaxed, tensionfree atmo-
sphereandisfrequentlytheprimarycomponentofwhatare
called “house blessing incenses.”
House Blessing Incense (1) Basic
Benzoin
Burnbenzoin incense tocreatepeace,whilesimultaneously
cleansingtheatmosphereandprovidingprotection.Benzoin
is also reputed to drive off harmful, malicious spirits.502/901
House Blessing Incense (2) Lighten
up the Home Front
Whichcamefirst,thechickenortheegg?Depressionandlow
energy are contagious. Sometimes people’s energy suffers
because the energy in the house is listless. Sometimes,
however, the general energy of the home may be dolorous
becauseithasabsorbedandretainedelementsofdepression
suffered by one or more of the residents. This fumigation
simultaneouslylightensupthehomeatmospherewhilehelp-
ing to relieve an individual’s feelings of depression.
1. Combine and blend equal parts benzoin, brown
sugar, and dried powdered garlic.
2. Burn it in a cast iron pan.
Joy and Laughter Oil Spell
Addessentialoilsofsweetorange,lime,andpinkgrapefruit
toabaseofjojobaoil.Dresscandleswiththisoilandburn
throughout the home to instill joy and laughter.
Lima Bean Serenity Spell
Thisspelliscalledforfollowingorinthemidstofdomestic
arguments:piercethreelimabeansandstringthemontored
silkthread.Carrythemforthreedays,thenburnthebeans
andthreadforrenewedpeaceandharmonyandtoresolve
conflicts.503/901
Negativity Begone!
Castthisspellonahappyday,whoseambienceyou’dliketo
preserve forever. Blend cumin with sea salt and scatter a
circlesunwisearoundtheperimeterofyourpropertytoban-
ish negativity and dissension.
New Home Spell
LuPanistheChinesedivinepatronofcarpenters,builders,
and inventors. In real life he was a contemporary of Con-
fucius.Followinghisdeathanddeification,LuPanprovides
peace in the family and builds protection right into a new
home.Itisparticularlyauspicioustoinvokehimafterbuild-
ing a new home or if you are the first resident in a new
building.
1. When construction is complete or when you are
ready to move in, have a party in Lu Pan’s honor.
2. Burn Spirit Money and incense in his honor.
3. Set off fire-crackers to get rid of any malevolent
spiritual partycrashers, who might wish to linger
inyourhome.(Loud,percussivemusicworks,too.
It’s hard to say which will annoy the neighbors
more.)
Peaceisnotoriouslydifficulttomaintain,whileanauraofar-
guing, divisiveness, and general unpleasantness spreads all
tooeasily.TheBiblesuggestspouringoilontroubledwaters.
Although the recommendation is usually interpreted as504/901
metaphoric,someoccultistshavetraditionallytakenthesug-
gestion literally.
Oil on Troubled Water Spell (1)
Literal Spell
1. Pour olive oil on the exact spot where an argu-
ment,unhappyconfrontation,orsceneofhumili-
ation occurred.
2. Let it stay for a little, to absorb the tension and
negative energy, before cleaning it up.
Oil on Troubled Water Spell (2)
Peace Water
ThisNewOrleansVoodooformulaoilderivesitsinspiration
fromthatsamebiblicalreferencetopouringoiloverwater.
However, unlike the previous spell, Peace Water will not
increasechancesofabrokenneck,norissomeoneultimately
forcedtocleanoiloffthefloor,perhapsleadingtoyetanoth-
erargumentastowhoisresponsibleforcleaningup.Peace
Water has another advantage. Purchasing most condition
oilsfromcommercialvendorsleavesyouwonderingwhat’s
inthebottle,whetherthereareanyrealbotanicalsinthere
orwhetheryou’vebeenhad.PeaceWaterisavisuallydis-
tinct oil: one look and you’ll know whether it’s real.
PeaceWaterexistsunderthepremisethatoilandwa-
terwon’tmix.Itshouldhavethree(sometimestwo)distinct
layersofoilandblueliquid.TruePeaceWaterisvisually505/901
beautiful; when looked upon, it should evoke a sense of
serenity and pleasure.
Toprovideandmaintainpeacewithinthehome,keepa
bottleofPeaceWaterprominentlydisplayedineachroomof
the house, to encourage peaceful, happy coexistence. In the
event of tension, violence, or altercation shake the bottle of
Peace Water, dispersing the layers. Sprinkle as needed,
wherever needed.
Peaceful Home Oil Spell
This condition oil allegedly ends familial quarrels and en-
couragesreconciliation.Anexcellentspelltocoincidewitha
family reunion!
1. CreatePeacefulHomeOilbygrindingbrownsug-
ar, bee pollen, orrisroot, and peppermint leaves
together.
2. Place this in a bottle together with pink rose
petals.
3. Cover with sweet almond and jojoba oils.
4. Soak cotton balls in the oil and tuck them stra-
tegically through the room.
Onion Vacuum
1. OnaFridaynightwheneveryoneelseinthehouse
is asleep, cut an onion in half.
2. Holditup,visualizeitasapsychicvacuumclean-
er. Let it suck up all negativity.506/901
3. Let it rest on a table.
4. Hold up one peeled crushed garlic clove.
5. Leave out for a little while.
6. Putitinapaperbaganddisposeofitoutsidethe
home.
Relocation Spell: Comfrey Root
Tuckbitsofcomfreyrootintopossessionsandfurniturebe-
foreloadingthemontothemovingvan,toensuretheirsafe
arrival at their destination.
Salt Spell
Tossahandfulofsaltintoyourcookingfire(stove,grill,or
similar)everyMondaymorningtokeepyourfamilyhappy
and goodnatured.
Seven-knob Peace and Happiness
Candles
Seven-knob candles draw happiness to you while deleting
hardshipfromyourlife.Inscribeblessingsoneachknobofa
white seven-knob candle and burn one knob daily.507/901
Sweet Dove Powder
Dove’sblood,dove’seyes:magicspellsarefilledwithrefer-
encestodoves.Dovesareamongthecreaturesmostbeloved
byspiritsofprimalfemalepowder,fromAphroditeandAsh-
erahtoMariaPadilha’sblackdoves.Grindandpowderbay
laurel leaves, carnations, cardamom, cloves, marjoram,
myrrh,androsepetals.Sprinklethepowderthroughoutthe
home to help create joy.
Tranquil Times Oil
Addcrumbledwhiterosepetals,cumin,andcarawayseedto
jojoba oil. Dress blue and white candles with this oil and
burn daily or as needed.
Triple Happiness Luck Charm
1. Place three garlic cloves, three yellow rose buds,
andthreegoldencoinsinawhitebag.(Thecoins
mustbegoldcolored;anythingrangingfromreal
gold to chocolate coins in gold foil works.)
2. Tie the bag up with gold ribbon.
3. Holding the bag, dance around the perimeter of
your home three times sunwise.
4. Dancearoundtheperimeterthreetimescounter-
clockwise (moon-wise).
5. While dancing envision sealing in love and
happiness.508/901
6. Hangthebagoverthefrontentranceusinganiron
nail.
Vanilla Spell
1. Stickavanillabeanintoatightlysealedcanisterof
sugar.
2. The aroma will infuse the sugar: use it in your
cooking and feed it to your family, to instill feel-
ings of peace, contentment, and happiness.
Wisteria Spell
PlaceapieceofwisteriarootinabottleofFloridaWateror
yourfavoritefragrance.Anointyourselfdailyforjoy,happi-
ness, and a peaceful heart.
Yarrow Happy Home Spell
Decorate the home with boughs of fresh yarrow to banish
sadness and negativity.
Young Boy Home Barometer Spell
ThereisaTaoistbeliefthatboysundertheageofsevenem-
body so much pure yang energy that simply bringing one509/901
into the home and observing his behavior and reactions
serves as an atmospheric barometer.
Inviteasmallboytovisityourhometoprovideyouwith
ahomehappinessdiagnosis.Obviouslyyoumustchooseyour
boy wisely; however, the following are the indicators to
watch out for:
• A smiling, happy, playful, energetic, vigorous
(but not destructive or overly hyperactive) child
indicates positive energy. Things are fine
• A child who falls asleep or is sluggish indicates
that the energy in the home needs revitalizing
• A tantrum, crankiness, major hissy fit, destruct-
ive impulses, or general bad behavior indicate
thatsomethingisamiss.Insteadof,orinaddition
to,rejuvenatingtheenergy,somegoodcleansing
spells may be in order
How do you revitalize that energy?
• Yang energy may be boosted by at least once a
day opening blinds and shutters and allowing
sunlight to stream in
• Temporarilyandsimultaneouslyopeningallout-
side doors and windows encourages circulation
of air and magical energy
• ConsiderusingtheraucousSoundHouseCleans-
ing spell to liven up the atmosphereHealing Spells
Eventhosewhoswearthattheydon’tbelieveinmagic,don’t
approveofmagic,andwouldneverparticipateinmagicwill
make an exception for a healing spell. It’s amazing what ill-
nessoraffliction,especiallythosethatdefydiagnosisorcon-
ventional treatment, will stimulate us to do.
Healingspellsarenotintendedtobeusedinsteadofcon-
ventional, traditional, or other methods of healing. Instead
they work best in conjunction with them, reinforcing other
systems, enhancing their power and the likelihood of recov-
ery.Manyspellsareintendedtobecastafteronehasalready
exhausted other more conventional resources.
Magical healing spellsmay beparticularly beneficial for
thoseailmentsthatresistconventionalidentificationbecause
magic possesses a broader definition of the origins of illness:
• Illnessordisabilitymayderivefrompurelyneut-
ral physical causes
• Illness or disability may derive from spiritual
and/or magical causes
• Illnessordisabilitymayderivefromacombina-
tion of physical/spiritual and/or magical causes
Straightforwardphysicalillnessesarenomorethanwhatthey
appear:yougotstuckintherain;youcaughtacold.Youate
too much sugar and didn’t brush your teeth; now you have
cavities. You smoked four packs a day; now you have em-
physema.Althoughthecauseofillnessisphysical,magicmay
still be used to enhance recovery. In general, however, cure511/901
matches source. Straightforward ailments demand straight-
forward treatment.
Spiritualandmagicalailmentsaremorecomplex.Inor-
dertodeterminethecorrectcourseoftreatment,itmustbe
determined whether an ailment’s ultimate source is human-
or spirit-derived.
• Magicalailmentsofhumanderivationmaybethe
result of a malevolent spell or the Evil Eye
• Spirit-sent ailments are more complex: was ill-
nesscausedintentionally?Illnessmayhavebeen
sentaspunishment,asanattemptatcommunica-
tion, or simply inadvertently
There’s alsoanother magical waytoconsider illness: health,
thestateofharmoniousbalance,isthenaturalstate.Thusill-
ness, by definition, indicates magical workings or spiritual
imbalance,theintensityoftheillnessdefiningtheintensityof
the magical or spiritual situation. Sudden surprising severe
illness (particularly when fatal) tends to be interpreted as
either deriving from human sources (a hex) or from minor
low-levelspirits.Majordiseases,especiallysmallpox,maybe
identifiedwithspecificwell-knownspirits.Ailmentsthatare
curious,hardtopindown,resistdiagnosis,andareincurable
(the person never gets better or worse but lingers in a mal-
aise) are also often attributed to major spirits. In this situ-
ation,thereasonbehindtheillnessmaybetostimulatetheaf-
flicted person to contact the spirit, not to kill that person.
Once spiritual interaction occurs, the illness passes or is
controlled.512/901
Healer’s Spells
Althoughconcernisfocusedonthepatient,thehealeriscon-
sidered vulnerable during treatment, too.
Archangel Raphael Spell for
Protection
ThearchangelRaphaelsponsorsandprotectsnurses,physi-
cians, pharmacists, and healers of all kind. Request his as-
sistancetoaccomplishyourhealingandalsotoprotectyou
before, during, and after.
1. Dedicate a white candle to Raphael.
2. Hold the candle in your hands to charge it with
your desire.
3. Place a small silver or iron fish charm near the
candle.
4. Whenthecandlehasburnedcompletely,carryor
wearthefishcharm.Reserveanyauspicious-look-
ing remnants of wax in a mojo bag or magic box.513/901
Distance Healing Spells
Candle Distance Spell
This candle spell, although intended to assist in another’s
healing, may also be cast for oneself.
1. Carve a white candle (plain, human figure, cross,
or“prayinghands”shape)toreflectthepersonfor
whom the healing spell is intended. (In other
words,carvetheotherperson’sname,identifying
information, and so on.)
2. Soak hyssop in olive oil and then use the oil to
dress the candle.
3. Burnthecandle;thisistraditionallyaccompanied
by the recitation of psalms or other sacred verses.
Doll Distance Healing Spell
BecauseonceuponatimeChinesewomenwouldn’tundress
before a doctor (even today a visit to a traditional Chinese
physician rarely involves undressing), beautiful, anatomic-
allycorrectnakeddollswerecarvedfromivory.Thesedolls
servedasacommunicationsdevicebetweendoctorandpa-
tient; pain, illness, affliction, and methods of healing could
bedemonstratedonthedollwithminimumembarrassment.
These dolls are still sometimes found in antique shops; re-
productionsarealsoavailable.Usethistypeofdollorcraft
or use a less realistic one to perform magical distance
healing.514/901
1. Holdthedollinyourhandstochargeitwithyour
intentions and healing energy.
2. Murmur healing incantations and blessings over
the doll.
3. Massage the doll with blended castor and olive
oils, scented with essential oil of lavender.
4. Place the doll within a ring of burning healing
candles.
5. Repeat as needed until the healing is complete.
Peppermint Distance Healing Spell
1. Placepeppermintleavesontopofaphotographof
the patient.
2. Charge a blue candle with your desire.
3. Carve and dress the candle as desired.
4. Burn it beside the photograph.
5. Whenthecandlehasburneddown,disposeofthe
peppermint leaves.
6. Repeat as needed, with fresh leaves each time.
Psalm Distance Healing Spell
1. Writeoutapetitionofhealingand/orblessingsof
improved health on a piece of parchment.
2. Place this in a dish containing Holy Water or
Marie Laveau Water.
3. Murmur psalms over this dish.
4. Whenthespellfeelscomplete,removetheparch-
ment, and allow it to dry. It may be preserved,515/901
buried,orgiventothespell’stargetasaprotective
talisman.
Talisman Distance Healing Spell
Topromotedistancehealing,chargestoneswithhealingen-
ergy, then give them to the spell’s target as a talisman.
Chooseanycrystalthatfeelsbesttoyou;however,tradition-
ally alexandrite, Herkimer diamonds, lodestones, moon-
stones, pearls, and quartz crystals are considered most
effective.
1. BurnawhitecandlenearDr.JoseGregorio’sim-
age, or burn a commercially manufactured Jose
Gregorio Hernandez seven-day candle.
2. Placeofferingsinfrontofhisvotiveimage.Cigar-
ettes are perhaps an inappropriate offering for a
medicaldoctor;however,thestandardofferingof
a glass of water or rum would probably not be
refused.
Gemstone Shield Spells
Certaincrystalgemstonescreateaprotectiveshieldsothat
the healer may accomplish his or her mission without fear.
1. Carry or wear bloodstone, clear quartz, and/or
black tourmaline during healing spells and rituals.
2. Anoint with Protection Oil if desired.
3. Cleanse after each magical session.516/901
This is particularly effective for spells or other attempts to
heal using body-working therapies, such as massage.
Healer’s Spell Crystal Protection
Crystal gemstones can be extremely beneficial in healing;
howevertheyarealsoveryappealingtofairies.Doyourval-
uedcrystalskeepdisappearing?Topreventthefairiesfrom
filching precious crystals:
1. Whennotinuse,keepthecrystalssafeinaniron
box.
2. Fairiescanbebeneficialinhealingtoo:toremain
in their good graces, offer them a gift of glass
marbles instead.
Rosemary Infusion of Power
Washingyourhandswithaninfusionofrosemarymagically
empowers and enhances all healing.
Createaninfusionbypouringboilingwateroverrose-
mary.Allowittocool,thenstrain.Thismaybedoneimme-
diatelypriortohealingortheliquidmaybebottledandre-
frigerated for later use.517/901
General Healing Spells
Thefollowingarespellstomaintaingoodhealth,enhanceim-
munity, provide general healing, and practice preventive
magic.
Acorn Good Health Spell
Acorns are sacred signs of life. Carry an odd-numbered
quantityofacornsinagreenorredcharmbagtomaintain
good health.
Agrimony Bath
This cleansing provides psychic and magical healing.
1. Make a strong infusion by pouring boiling water
over agrimony.
2. Let it cool, then strain out the botanical material.
3. Dip a white cloth into the infusion and gently
bathe the patient.
Amber Beads Disease Prevention
Amber beads are perceived as bolstering health; however,
notjustanyamberbeadswilldo.Amberbeadscarvedinto
theshapesofgenitals,whetherveryliterallyorjustvaguely518/901
reminiscent,allegedlyprovideprotection,especiallyregard-
ing health. Wear or carry as needed.
Banish Affliction Spell
Touchtherelevantpartofthebody,whereverhealingorre-
liefisneeded,withthreefingers:thethumb,middle,andring
fingers. Stretch the other two out straight and chant:
Go away!
Itdoesn’tmatterwhetheryouoriginatedtodayorearlieror
anytime
Thisillness,thispain,thisswelling,thistumor,thisrash[fill
in as appropriate]
I call it out, I lead it out, I speak it out,
I call it gone, I lead it gone, I speak it gone,
I call it vanished, I lead it vanished, I speak it vanished
Throughthisspell,frommylimbsandbones,myfleshand
blood
Vanish pain, vanish illness, vanish suffering!
Bloody Stick Transference Spell
According to magical theory, illness may be removed via
methods of transference. The following ritual must be ac-
complished in complete and total silence.
1. Position yourself by a stream so that the water
runs away from you.
2. Take a hazel or elder stick.
3. Carve your name into it.519/901
4. Make three small slices into the stick.
5. Fillthesesliceswithyourblood,eithermenstrual
blood or a few drops obtained by pricking your
finger.
6. Throwthestickoveryourleftshoulderorbetween
your legs into water that must be flowing away
from you, ideally rapidly.
7. Walk away without looking back.
Clothing Spell
AmongvariousDravidiantraditionsofIndia,theconceptof
thecontagiousaspectofillnessextendstothemagical.Thus
thesickperson’sclothesandbedlinensbecomeimpregnated
bythediseaseandarethusdangerous.Thisisamagicalim-
pregnation,beyondwhatlaunderingwithantibacterialsoap
can cure.
To counteract, bring fabrics to a place with extreme
barakaorbenevolentsacredmagicpower,toregenerate,re-
vitalize,andmakethemsafe.Hangtheclothesorlinenona
sacredtree,inaholyplace,orinashrine.(Thisisalsobene-
ficialfornewlinensorritualclothing.Beyondsafetyprecau-
tions and preventive measures, this creates highly charged
talismanic fabrics.)
Once a year, during the month of May, masses of Romany
people converge on the French town of Les Saintes-Maries-
de-la-Mer, at the shrine of their matron saint, Sarah Kali.
SarahKali’sidentityissubjecttointerpretation.Shemaybe
the Egyptian servant who accompanied Mary Magdalene,
MaryandMarthaofBethanyandMarySalometoFrance;she
maybeaRomanypriestessofIshtarwhogreetedthemupon520/901
arrival in Provence; she may be the daughter of Mary Mag-
daleneandJesusChrist;orshemaybetheHindudeityKaliin
disguise, having accompanied the Romany from India.
A beautiful statue of Sarah Kali is enshrined within an
ancientgrotto,believedtohaveoncebeenavenueforceleb-
ratingthemysteriesofMithras.Duringherfestival,thestatue
iscarriedinprocessiontotheseawhereitisimmersedand
bathed. Brought back to her shrine, she is then dressed in
finery.
It is traditional to bring offerings to the statue in con-
junction with petitions asked and received. However Sarah
Kali also accepts offerings of clothing from those suffering
fromillness orinneed ofhealing. The clothing is placed on
her body and creates the connection between the deity and
thepetitioner.Astheclothingabsorbsthedeity’spower,the
healingistransmittedtothepetitioner,whomayhaveatten-
dedthefestivalormaybefaraway.Thisprinciplemayalsobe
appliedtoapersonalshrineandavotiveimageclosetoyour
heart.
Color Therapy
Every color has the capacity to heal. Each color has specific
magicpowersbestsuitedforcertainailmentsorphysicalcon-
ditions. Expose yourself to concentrated doses of the appro-
priate color(s) to avail yourself of their healing energy. Sur-
roundyourselfwiththeneededcolor;wearit,gaze,andmed-
itate upon it.
Access the healing magic of color through:
• Crystals. Although each crystal gemstone pos-
sesses its own specific healing powers,521/901
generalitiesmaybedrawnbasedoncolor.Select
crystals in the color range most beneficial for
you:usetheminmassage,meditation,andother
healing rituals
• Colorbaths.Tintthewatersothatitcoordinates
withyourhealingneeds.Therearecommercially
available “color baths.” In addition, the
nineteenth-century Bavarian cleric and healer,
Father Sebastian Kneipp, pioneered a system of
hydrotherapy. Although there seems to be no
evidence connecting Father Kneipp’s theories to
colorhealing,hisbaths,nowcommerciallyavail-
able,arevividlycoloredandmaybethemostac-
cessible color bath, although this may not have
beentheiroriginalintent.However,youcanalso
tint the water yourself with food coloring and
various natural plant dyes. Just make sure
whatever you use is safe and nontoxic
• Candle magic. Coordinate candle colors with
your particular ailment
• BLACK: physical and mental exhaustion
• BLUE: emotional imbalance, post-trau-
matic stress, throat disorders, speech
disorders, headaches, toothaches, in-
somnia, susto
• BROWN: vertigo, disorientation, psychic
torpor
• GREEN: physical healing, cancer, ul-
cers, high blood pressure, heart trouble522/901
• ORANGE: bowel and digestive dis-
orders, arthritis, asthma, fevers, bron-
chitis and related bronchial ailments
• RED: physical disabilities, blood dis-
orders, HIV and AIDS, anemia, vitamin
deficiency, impotence, infertility
• YELLOW: stomach problems, skin dis-
orders, depression due to heartache
Colored Water Spells
1. Fill clear glass or cut crystal bottles with spring
water.
2. Tint the water the desired shade.
3. Place the bottle(s) in a sunny window.
4. Sit, relax, and gaze at the color(s).
Color Spell: Maximum Intensity
Different methods of accessing the magic healing power of
colorsaren’tmutuallyexclusivebutmaybeusedinconjunc-
tion.Thefollowingcombinationofcolors,candles,crystals,
and chants allegedly helps prevent illness as well as over-
come it.
1. Choose the appropriate color.
2. Burn candles in the corresponding color.523/901
3. Surround them with color-coordinated crystal
gemstones and color-water bottles.
4. Thisspellmaybefurtherempoweredbychanting
sacred verses, especially Habakkuk 3:3–5.
Convalescence Spells
Maintain the magic during convalescence to speed healing
and protect a vulnerable aura.
Convalescence Spell: Coffee
Coffeeallegedlyinvigoratesandempowersmagically.Brew
goodfreshstrongcoffee.Addanoddnumberofcupstothe
bath and bathe.
Convalescence Spell: Rue
Wear a sprig of fresh rue pinned to your clothing during
convalescence for protection and to magically speed healing.
Crossroads Healing Spell
One never knows exactly whom one will meet at the cross-
roads.Crossroadsareperceivedasamagicjunctionfullof
swirling energies, powers, and spirits. This spell presumes524/901
thatatleastsomeoftheseforceswillbesympathetictoyour
plea.
1. Bring bread and a libation to a crossroads.
2. Pour out the libation and place the bread on the
ground.
3. Turninallapplicabledirections,eachtimemaking
a request for healing and improved health.
4. Return home without looking back.
Doll Spell Healing Doll Spell
Illnessmaybetransferredbyusingdollsandfigurines.This
ancientAssyrianformula,intendedtorestoregoodhealthto
someonewhoisailing,requiresthecreationofaclayorwax
figurine.Itshouldlookanonymousandnotresembleeither
the person suffering from the ailment or anyone else.
1. Someoneotherthantheailingpersonisappointed
tocommunicatewiththediseasespirit.Thegoalis
toenticetheillnesstoleavethehumanandenter
thedollinstead.Considerhowthisistobeaccom-
plished before beginning the spell. Remember,
low-levelspiritentities,whichincludemanyofthe
lesser disease spirits, are not overly blessed with
intelligence.
2. As soon as it’s apparent that the disease demon
has taken the bait and entered the doll, immedi-
ately remove the doll from the premises and dis-
pose of it far from home.
3. Return via a circuitous route.525/901
4. Both the target of the spell (the patient) and the
personwhocommunicatedwiththediseasespirit
shouldundergoextensivecleansingandprotective
rituals.
Earth-absorbing Healing Spell
Intheory,thisspellisdedicatedtoadeity,the“you”referred
tointhechant.Leaveitambiguousorsubstitutethenameof
yourchoice.Thespellmayalsobededicatedtothepowersof
Earth.Theendresultisthattheillnessorafflictionmagically
departs from your body and is absorbed by Earth.
Chant the following, nine times:
I think of you.
Heal my___[fill in the blank].
Let Earth retain the illness.
Let health remain with me.
Put your hands flat on Earth and spit.
Evil Eye Healing Spell
AmethodofhealingillnesscausedbytheEvilEye:remove
theinfluencebymassagingthebodywithawholerawegg,
and then bathe the person with Holy Water.526/901
Four-leaf Clover Healing Spell
Four-leafcloversallegedlypossessmagicalhealingpowers.
Ifyoucan’tfindone,createone.Thisspellisespeciallybene-
ficial if one person does it for another.
Cut a four-leaf clover shape from paper or a sheet of
copper or tin. Empower it with blessings of healing then
hangitnearthepatientorwithintheirlineofsighttomagic-
ally ease pain, bring joy, stimulate healing, and speed
recovery.
Fumigation Against Illness and
Infection Spell
Grind small amounts of dried juniper and dried rosemary
together. Sprinkle the resulting powder on lit charcoal.
Forgreaterintensity,anoutdoorritualmaybeeffected,
to transmit the healing fumes into the greater atmosphere.
Buildasmallfirewithjuniperwood,andfeeditwithrose-
mary branches.
Knot Healing Spells
Manyhealingspellsutilizetheprinciplesofknotmagic.Re-
member to focus your intent and desire as you pull the knot.527/901
Knot Healing Spell (1)
This spell comes from Central Asia.
1. Spin or obtain a three-colored cord: blue, green,
and red.
2. Tie one knot in the cord for seven consecutive
days.
3. After theseventh day and theseventh knot, bury
the cord in an inaccessible spot. The disease
should disappear as the cord rots.
Knot Healing Spell (2)
Sometimesyouhavetotie,butsometimesyouhavetountie.
Visualizetheillnessandsufferingasyoutietheinitialknots.
You’renotwishingtheillness—quitetheopposite.You’rees-
sentiallytransferringtheillnessintotheknot.Thenvisualize
reliefastheknotsareuntied;theillness’sterribleenergydis-
persing into the atmosphere.
1. Tie seven knots in a string.
2. Make it into a bracelet for the patient.
3. Untie one knot each day.
4. On the last day, unravel the thread and throw
everythingintorunninglivingwater,flowingaway
from the patient’s location.
Originally this spell began with the spinning of the thread,
accompaniedbysincereprayerandtherepetitionofsacred
texts.528/901
Knot Spell: Peony Roots
Peony,thehealingplantoftheancientGreeks,isallegedlya
plant of divine origin formed from moonbeams. It’s associ-
atedwiththedivinehealer,Asklepios.Accordingtolegend,
Asklepios was the child of Apollo and his priestess, a prin-
cess.Whilepregnantshefellinlovewithamortalmanand
attempted to marry him. Apollo, jealous and infuriated,
killedherbutsavedbabyAsklepiosfromherfuneralpyre.Or
sogoesthestory.Badthingsseemtohappentowomenwho
catch Apollo’s romantic interest, if we recall some other
priestesses, such as Daphne and Cassandra.
In any case, Apollo nurtured his son and taught him
secretsofhealing.Asklepiosbecamesuchagooddoctorthat
herevivedthedead.Thisupsetthebalanceofnatureandup-
setthegods;Hadesinparticularwaslivid,soAsklepioswas
immediately killed and deified.
Fashion a necklace from peony roots and have the pa-
tientwearitaroundhisorherneck.Thisallegedlywardsoff
illness and evil and is also beneficial for soothing, prevent-
ing, or minimizing seizure disorders.
Milagros
Themilagro(Spanishfor“miracle”)isamagicaltoolthatmay
beusedasacharm,amulet,votiveoffering,orspiritualcom-
municationsdevice.Althoughmilagrosmaybeusedinother
types of spells, they are most frequently dedicated to healing.
They may also be formed from any material, from pre-
cious gems to wax, but most milagros are cut from529/901
inexpensivesilver-coloredmetal.Theshapeofthemilagrois
chosentocorrespondwithanailmentoraffliction.Milagros
taketheformofisolatedbodyparts,themostcommonbeing
hands,heads,feet,legs,arms,eyes,maleandfemalegenitals,
breasts,eyes,ears,noses,andhearts.Uterusesaretradition-
ally represented by images of toads or hedgehogs, reflecting
medieval conceptions of the female reproductive system.
Thepurposeofthemilagroistoeitherstrengthenorheal
the corresponding part of the body, to prevent, or to heal a
disorder.Milagrosmaybeusedinritualtohelpextractillsaf-
flictingthecorrespondingpart,buttheyaremostcommonly
used as a spiritual communication device.
Milagro Spiritual Petition Spell
1. Determinetowhomyourpetitionistobedirected
and thus to whom the milagro will be presented.
Milagrosmaybepresentedatashrine(manyLat-
inAmericancathedralshavespecialareasreserved
for such petitions) or upon a home altar.
Determinewhatyouwillgiveinexchange,should
the healing be effected.
2. Light candles and do whatever is necessary to
draw attention toward your petition.
3. Hold the milagro in your hands to charge it with
your desired goal.
4. Make your request and your vow.530/901
Milagro Good Health Maintenance
Spell
Becausemilagrosstrengthencorrespondingparts,theymay
alsobeusedtomaintainastateofgoodhealth.Collectassor-
ted milagros, corresponding to parts for which you may
haveconcern.Pinthemtoafabric-coveredboard.Maintain
quartzcrystalsnearbytofurtherempowerthemilagros,just
in case any Direct Application Spells should ever become
necessary.
Mistletoe Ring
Carve a ring from mistletoe (and wear it!) to ward off
illness.
Pearls of Health
Anexpensiveprescriptionformaintaininggoodhealthsug-
gests youkeep abowlfilled withreal pearls ineasyreach.
Periodically run your fingers through them. This allegedly
enhancestheimmunesystem,stimulateshealth,andencour-
ages longevity.531/901
Potato Health Preservation Spell
Potatoes possess an absorbing quality, similar to eggs or
coconuts.Usethisspelltomaintaingoodhealthortomagic-
ally absorb and eliminate lingering minor ailments.
1. Carryasmallpotato,suchasafingerling,inyour
pocket or medicine bag, to ward off disease and
other evils.
2. Carry the potato until it begins to smell, rot, or
somehowbecomedistasteful.(Ifyoudon’twantto
touchit,thenit’stimetostopcarryingit.)Essen-
tially, it’s full like a vacuum bag.
3. Discard and replace.
Radiant Health Oil
1. Grindandpowderangelicaroot,calendula,euca-
lyptus, lavender, juniper, and rosemary.
2. Coverwithtwopartsjojobaoiltoonepartcastor
oil.
3. Carvecandlestosuityoursituationanddresswith
Radiant Health Oil to achieve and maintain a
healthy condition.
Rose of Jericho Water Spell
TheRoseofJerichoisalsoknownasthe“ResurrectionPlant”
because of its powers of revival. Let those powers be532/901
transferred toyou.RoseofJericho Water providesgeneral
vitality and allegedly prevents illness. Experiment and see
what it can do.
1. Oncetherosehasblossomed,playwithitandthe
water.Touchtheroseverygently,letyourfingers
play in the water, in the meantime praying, peti-
tioning, and visualizing good fortune and radiant
health.
2. AddRoseofJerichoWatertoyourbathoruse
it in compresses to bathe the brow.
Saint John’s Eve Healing Spell
Among mugwort’s many nicknames is Saint John’s girdle,
causingfrequentconfusionwithSaintJohn’sWort.Allegedly
JohntheBaptistworeagirdle(belt)wovenfrommugwort
while in the wilderness. A similar magic belt allegedly
provides you with good health.
In time for Saint John’s Eve, weave a magic belt from
mugwort,knottingyourhopesandintentionsintothegirdle.
Wearitwhiledancingaroundthebonfire;atsomepointbe-
forethenightendsandthebonfireburnsout,tossthebeltin-
to the flames to receive a year of good health.
Send the Disease Out to Sea Spell
EverymagicaltraditiononEarthhasitspersonalquirksand
predilectionsthatdistinguishitfromothers.Russianmagic
is characterized by incredibly poetic, evocative wordcharm533/901
formulas. They are formulaic because the beginning of the
chantisstandardized,somethinglikethe“Onceuponatime”
or“Oncetherewasandoncetherewasn’t”traditionalbegin-
nings for fairy tales. When you hear those openings, you
knowyou’veenteredtherealmoffairytales.Similarly,these
standardized word charms signal that you’ve entered the
realmofenchantment.Inevitablytheformulaallowsyouan
opening at the end to personalize the spell.
Chant aloud:
On Earth there is an ocean
In the ocean there is a sea
In the sea there is water
In the water there is an island
On the island is land
On the land is a forest
In the forest there are woods
In the woods there are trees
In the trees there is one tree
On that tree is a bough
On that bough is a branch
On that branch is a creature
That creature is a [name it]
Illness! Go into that ______ [name the creature].
(Ifyouwanttodiminishitevenfurther,givethecreaturea
parasite.)
Stinging NettlesSpell
Keep fresh stinging nettles under the patient’s bed. Replace
them daily, burning the old nettles.534/901
Sweet Grass Health Protection
Spell
Wear sweet grass roots as necklaces or sew them onto
blankets and clothing. This Cheyenne charm also allegedly
works as a disease preventative.
Three Angels’ Health Spell
Chant:
Three angels stand on the far side of Jordan
One binds, one resolves,
One cries out, Kadosh, Kadosh, Kadosh!
Continuewithfurtherchantsandrecitationsofsacredtexts.
Tell the three angels what you need.
White Sage Healing Spell
Whitesage,indigenoustoNorthAmerica,isconsideredone
ofthemostpotentcleansingandprotectivebotanicals.Once
common,itisnowendangered;formaximumbenefitandto
preserve this botanical wonder, grow and use your own.
Burn quantities of white sage to magically drive away
illness.535/901
Yerba Santa Spells
Erictyoncalifornicum,aCalifornianative,ismostpopularly
knownasyerbasanta,literally“sacredherb.”Anothername
forthisbotanicalis“bearweed,”indicatingitsuseasamir-
acle healer.
Yerba Santa Prevention Spell
Wear the herb around your neck to prevent illness and
injury.
Yerba Santa Healing Spell
Burn yerba santa in the sick room to disperse disease
demons and to psychically empower the ailing person.536/901
Specific Ailments
Common Cold
Amber TemperatureControl Spell
Minimizeandwardoffchillsbywearingtightlybeadedam-
bernecklaces.Amberisbelievedtoabsorbbodyheatandre-
tain it, thus magically creating a balancing effect.
Ruby Water Spell
Astrologicallyalignedwiththesun,rubiesarebelievedtora-
diatehotredcosmicraysthatcureillnessescausedandag-
gravated by cold. Steep a ruby in a clean vessel filled with
pure, spring water. Remove the ruby and drink the water.
Rubycrystalgemstoneelixir(AlaskaFlowerRemedies)
may be substituted, although do not exceed the manufac-
turer’s recommended dosage. Wearing a ruby is also sup-
posed to help.
RubyWaterisalsorecommendedforanemiaandother
ailments associated with blood, including circulatory defi-
ciencies, low (but not high, which it will aggravate) blood
pressure, infertility, and (my favorite) stupidity.537/901
Fever
Today, the term “fever”very specifically refers to elevated
body temperature. Once upon a time, medical terminology
wasn’tnecessarilyasspecificasitistoday.Spellsforfevertar-
getawholehostofailmentsunitedonlybyasharedtendency
toward elevated temperature. These spells are indicated for
anyailmentthatevenlooselyfallsunderthatcategory,includ-
ing outbreaks of flu.
ABRACADABRA!
Perhaps the most famous spell in the world still retains its
mysteries. What does the word mean? Various theories re-
gardingitsderivationareofferedandhotlydebated.Isitre-
latedtotheGnosticSpirit,Abraxas,recalledfondlybyfans
of Hermann Hesse’s novel, Steppenwolf? Is it from the
Chaldean abbada ke dabra, “perish like the word?” Is it de-
rivedfromHebrewAbreqadHabra,“hurlyourthunderbolt
evenuntodeath,”orisitacorruptionoftheHebrewwords
bracha (“blessing”) and dabar (“action, word”)? Maybe it’s
none of the above but the name of a nowforgotten spirit.
Despiteitsmodernusageasajokemagicalwordcharm,
something like hocus pocus or bippety-boppety-boo,
Abracadabrais,infact,awrittencharmintendedtoprovide
physicalhealing.Itisthemostfamousofaseriesofdimin-
ishing word charms, most common to Semitic magic. Pre-
sumably,astheworddiminishes,sodoesthefever,pain,or
illness.
Instructionsappearinthefirstwrittenreferencetothe
spell in the second century CE, from Quintus Serenus538/901
Sammonicus,thepersonalphysiciantotheRomanEmperor
Septimius Severus. For relief from fever:
1. Inscribetheword“abracadabra”onparchmentor
metal lamella.
2. Attach this word charm to a piece of flax long
enough to be worn around the patient’s neck.
3. Thecharmmustbewornaroundtheneckfornine
daysthenthrownawayovertheleftshoulderinto
water flowing east.
Tips for writing“abracadabra:”
1. Writeneatlyandcarefully,focusingonintention
as you write. Don’t let your mind wander
2. The letters are not supposed to touch each other
3. Abracadabraisbelievedmosteffectivewhenwrit-
ten with Hebrew letters because the word in
Hebrew contains nine letters, nine being the su-
preme number of power
Therearevariousmethodsofusingthecharm.Theinverted
triangle is recommended for fever:
A B R A C A D A B R A
B R A C A D A B R A
R A C A D A B R A
A C A D A B R A
C A D A B R A
A D A B R A
D A B R A
A B R A
B R A
R A539/901
A
An upward-facing triangle is used to heal and relieve
asthma:
A
A B
A B R
A B R A
A B R A C
A B R A C A
A B R A C A D
A B R A C A D A
A B R A C A D A B
A B R A C A D A B R
A B R A C A D A B R A
Abracadabramayalsobewrittenasaparallelogram,con-
sisting of two triangles, for enhanced healing and
empowerment:
A
R A
B R A
A B R A
D A B R A
A D A B R A
C A D A B R A
A C A D A B R A
R A C A D A B R A
B R A C A D A B R A
A B R A C A D A B R A
B R A C A D A B R A
R A C A D A B R A540/901
A C A D A B R A
C A D A B R A
A D A B R A
D A B R A
A B R A
B R A
R A
A
Chili Pepper Fever Spell
1. Break two chili peppers each in half.
2. Place them on an old cloth.
3. Sprinkle them with black mustard seeds and
tamarind.
4. Wrap up the packet, knotting it shut.
5. Pass this over the afflicted person three times.
6. Have him or her spit on the bundle three times.
7. Throw the packet into a fire.
Because rubies are believed to have a warming
effect on the body, it’s recommended that ruby
jewelry be removed from those suffering fever.541/901
Headache/Migraine
Amethyst Headache Remedy
Becauseofamethyst’sassociationswithDionysusandalco-
hol (see Banishing Spells), presumably this magical cure is
especially beneficial for those morning-after headaches.
1. Immerseanamethystinmoderatelyhotwaterfor
seven minutes.
2. Gently pat it dry.
3. Carefullyrubtheamethystoveraffectedareasplus
the back of the neck.
Headache Removal by Hand Spell
Potatoes,coconuts,andeggsareallconsidered“absorbent”
powersusedtoremoveillnessandspiritualdebris.Thehu-
manhandhassimilarproperties.Testyourpowersofheal-
ing. See if you can magically remove someone else’s head-
ache.Eggs,coconuts,andpotatoesarethrownoutfollowing
use;however,inthiscase,soastoavoidyoubeingsaddled
with the headache, other methods of transference and dis-
posal are used.
1. Layyourhandonthebrowofthepersonsuffering
from headache.
2. Trytodrawtheheadacheintoyourpalmbutdon’t
allowittotravelpastyourpalm,notupyourarm542/901
or any farther. You don’t want to inherit the
headache.
3. Assoonasyoufeelitortheotherpersonexpresses
relief, immediately drive a nail into the wall.
It’snotsafetousethistechniqueforanythingotherthana
minor ailment, without extensive magical preparation. If
youfearinheritingtheheadache,usealodestoneasatoolin-
stead of your palm. Alternatively, use a flat hand charm,
suchasahandofFatimaorahamsa,ideallycraftedfrom
silver.
Rose of Jericho Headache Relief
Spell
SoakawhiteclothinRose of Jericho Watertocreatea
compress.Placeitontoyourforeheadorthebackoftheneck
to provide relief.
Stony Head Headache Spell
Pickherbsthataregrowingontheheadofastonestatue.Tie
themupwitharedthreadandplacethemonthespotwhere
yourheadhurts.Thisallegedlyremovesthepain.Mugwort
and/orpeppermintareconsideredthemostefficaciousofthe
herbs.
Ifyousufferfromfrequentheadaches,youmaywantto
trainyourherbstogrowthisway,evenifyouhavetoknock
thestatue’sheadontotheground.Boththepreferredplants
are hardy growers who like stony soil.543/901
Watery Crossroads Spell
For chronic headache take water from the spot where two
streamsorriversmerge,essentiallythewater’scrossroads.
Sprinkle this water on the patient.
Pain Relief Spells
Chestnut Pain Relief Spell
Horsechestnutsarereputedtoabsorbphysicalpain,andare
especially effective for joint pain:
1. Placeabowlofhorsechestnutsintheafflictedper-
son’s room.
2. Wash the nuts daily in cool spring water to en-
hancetheircapacitytoabsorbpain,andthendry
them well.
3. Should a nut crack, decay, or appear damaged,
discard it immediately and replace.
Enhancethepowerofthechestnutsbyringingthebowlwith
clear quartz crystal.544/901
Copper Garter Spell
Copper’saffinityforhealingtheachesandpainsofarthritis
gobeyondthepopularbracelet.Formaximumeffectiveness,
attach copper charms to a red garter and wear it.
Potato Spell
Placeapotatoinyourpockettodrawoutthepainandstiff-
ness of rheumatism.
Stone Pain Removal Spell
1. Holdarockinyourhandandvisualizeitabsorb-
ing your pain.
2. Wrapbarleystrawaroundthestone,whilemain-
taining this visualization.
3. Throw the stone into living water flowing away
from you.545/901
Toothache/Dental Health
Abracadabra/Sator Full Strength
Combination Dental Health Spell
Toremedytoothache,chanttheAbracadabraspell(instead
ofwritingit)threetimes,followedbythreerepetitionsofthe
SATOR square (seePregnancy and Childbirth Spells).
Double Hazelnut Tooth Relief
Findadoublehazelnutandcarryitwithinareddrawstring
bag to relieve dental pain.
Iron Dental Health Spell
The following is a German recommendation to soothe a
toothache.Heatahorseshoeorotherpieceofironuntilex-
tremelyhot.Pouroilontotheheatediron.Therisingfumes
willallegedlyeasethepain.Ifitissafetodoso(there’sno
need to exchange toothache for a painful scald), bend over
the fumes, exposing the tender spot.Hexes and Their
Antidotes
Admitit:thisisthefirstpagetowhichyouturned.With
theexceptionofloveandmoneyspells,nothingfascinateslike
a mean, wicked spell. Magic power used so benevolently to
draw health, wealth, stability, love, and fertility can also be
used as aggressive, punishing conduits of frustration, anger,
and resentment toward others, hence the hex. These spells
define why some fear magic.
Thesearenotsociallyrespectablespells,tosaytheleast.
Lestyoutakethemtorepresentthestateofmodernmagic,let
me emphatically add that in the current cultural climate of
twenty-first-century witchcraft, hexes, curses, and other
malevolentspellsareincrediblydépassé.ModernWiccapas-
sionately emphasizes thethree-foldlaw:asyoureap,soyou
shall sow. Whatever magical intention and energy you put
forth will come back to you at least three times over, if not
seven,nine,ortwenty-onetimes.ManymodernWiccanshes-
itate before casting a reasonably innocuous love or employ-
ment spell on the off-chance that the other party’s free will
mightbecompromised.Inthatcontextspellsthatdeliberately
attempttocausesomeonestrife,misery,andunhappinessare
perceived as abhorrent indeed.
Thesearethespellsthathaveearnedmagicitsevilrepu-
tation—or are they?
Infactethicalconsiderationsofwhatconstitutes“wicked
magic” date back to that proverbial time immemorial. Ac-
cordingtothepurestmagictheory,powerisneutral.Malevol-
enceorbenevolencedependsentirelyuponwhatisdonewith547/901
thispower.Anypowercanbeusedforgoodorill.Thistheor-
etical concept hasn’t always satisfied people. Since the very
earliesttimes,there’sbeendebateabout“goodmagic”versus
“bad magic.”
Debatesabouttheappropriateuseofmagicpowerhave
existedaslongastherehasbeenawarenessofthispower,and
show no sign of abatement. Some fear magic in its entirety,
somefearaspectsofmagic,whileothersrecognizeitsinher-
ent sacred quality. According to medieval master magician,
Cornelius Agrippa, a theologian whose time coincided with
European witch hunts, the practice of magic was one of the
lawful ways to attain knowledge of God and nature.
At some point, in the Common Era, “good” and “bad”
magictransformedinto“white”and“black”magic,termsthat
stillretainpopularity.Thosetermsarenotusedinthisbook.
The straightforward terms “malevolent” or “benevolent” are
used instead. At best, it’s disingenuous to use those terms
(white and black magic) today, pretending that they don’t
haveracialandethnicconnotations.Peopleprotestthatthey
don’t mean the phrase that way but it’s difficult to under-
standhowelsetointerpretitinthecontextofaworldwhere,
historically, darker-skinned minority groups have been dis-
criminated against or persecuted for magical practice and
witchcraftbythelighter-skinnedmajority,whetherinEurope
(Jews,Romany,Saami),NorthAfrica(Gnawa),NorthAmer-
ica (Native Americans, those of African descent), or South
America (indigenous Americans, those of African descent).
Why would anyone send a hex or a curse anyway?
Thefirstreasonistheobvious:badpeopledobadthings.
The destructive impulse can be extremely potent.
Other answers are more complex and ambiguous. In
somecases,theremaybeanextremelyfinelinebetweenahex
and a justice spell. We’re very quick to jump to conclusions548/901
these days and automatically brand every hex-caster as evil;
however,thisperceptionmayderivefromtheluxuriousvant-
ageofcomfortabletimes.Peopledon’tcreateorcastcourtcase
spells unless there’s at least a remote possibility of legal
justice.Whatifyouexistinatimeorplacewhereyouoryour
lovedonesareatthemercyofothersmorepowerfulthanyou
andthereisnorecourse,none,notatall,tojustice?Whatdo
you do then? Hexes are not an uncommon response. Hexes
may be cast as a desperate attempt to end persecution and
abuse.
In the same manner that Witch Wars escalate, with
witcheslobbingspellsateachotheruntilit’simpossibletode-
terminewhocastthefirstspell,oneshouldn’talwaysassume
thatthehexistheinitiatingaction.Itmaybecastinresponse
to a terrible violation, crime, or injustice.
Manyofthemostpowerfulhexesultimatelycallonsac-
red—or infernal—powers to deliver the punishment. It isn’t
the mechanical action of the spell that makes the successful
accomplishment of a hex possible. It’s the passionate anger,
hatred,andragethatfuelit.Yetforallthathatredandrage,
thespell-casterisplottingahex,notcommittingmurder.The
average hex-caster, or at least those who initially derived
thesespells,waseithernotinapositiontoactontheseim-
pulsesorwasleavingitinthehandsofdivinejustice.Those
extremesituations(andtherearefinelines;theJusticespell
againstarapistcouldconceivablybeinterpretedasahex,as
could the Green Devil Spell to regain a cash debt owed) are
perhaps the only situations that could justify some of these
spells.
Hexes also sometimes serve a function that transcends
magic: enforcement of social order. Many of the most
malevolenthexesaresecret:blackcandlesburnedinprivate
or funeral services chanted over your enemy. Other hexes,549/901
however,areextremelypublic:thespellisactivatedby“dust-
ing” the target’s doorstep. Something is left on the target’s
frontdoorstepforthemtofindwhentheyopenthedoor.It’s
quite likely thatbythetime thetarget discovers thehex,all
the neighbors and passers-by have already witnessed it. Al-
thoughthesespellsarenominallyanonymous(theidentityof
the spell-caster is reputedly unknown), realistically many in
the community will know exactly who cast the hex. If
someoneisbehavinginamannerthatisperceivedasdanger-
ous or undesirable, dusting their doorstep is traditionally a
wayofinformingthemthatothersareunhappy,givingthem
anopportunitytochangetheirwaysorleave.Inthesecases,
hexesmaybeunderstoodintermsofintimidationratherthan
magic. And some of them are threatening indeed.
There are essentially two types of hexes:
• thosecreated frommaterials thatareinherently
malevolent;thefactthatthematerialisevenused
indicates a hex
• those created from neutral materials or even
frommaterialthatisinherentlysacred,benevol-
ent, and beneficial. The spell-caster’s intent is
whattransformsitintoahex.Thusahandfulof
graveyarddustmaybetossedinsomeone’swake
to provide a blessing or a curse550/901
IMPORTANT: A WARNING
SPELL BEFORE BEGINNING
Should one for any reason (and, of course, yours
is a good one) attempt to cast a malicious spell
using oils or powders, and should some of that
hexing material somehow get onto you, forget
about the original spell and focus immediately on
cleansing yourself instead.
• Cleanse thoroughly using rosemary hy-
drosol or appropriate quantities of the
essential oil. (Remember less is always
more with essential oils. Don’t be temp-
ted to use excessive amounts because
you’ve scared yourself.)
• Wait at least 24 hours before consider-
ing whether to return to the original
spell
This cleansing may also be used if you are the
target of a malevolent spell.
Black Arts Oil
A traditional condition oil used to cast hexes:551/901
1. Grindupblackmustardseeds,blackpepper,mul-
lein, stinging nettles, and valerian.
2. Put it in a bottle and cover with mineral (baby) oil.
3. Floatwholepeppercornsintheoilandifyouhave
a black dog, add one single hair. (Pick it off the
sofaoryourclothing.Don’tbotherthedog;annoy-
ingthedogwillcausethespelltobackfireonyou
immediately even before the Rule of Three kicks
in.)
Sonowthatyou’veconcoctedthismean-spiritedoil,whatdo
you do with it?
Black Arts Oil Spell Candle Spell
Carveablackorpurplecandletosuityoursituation.Dress
with Black Arts Oil and burn.
Blueberry Hex
Evensomethingasinnocuousasblueberrieshasbeenusedto
castmaliciousspells.Createaninfusionofblueberryleaves
and sprinkle over your target’s doorstep.
Bottle Hex
1. Place your target’s photograph inside a bottle.
2. Write the target’s name on a piece of paper and
put this inside the bottle, too.552/901
3. Stuff holly and ivy into the bottle.
4. Add some black ink andWar Water.
5. Seal the bottle shut and bury it upside down.
Candle Hex Black Cat Crossed Your
Path
TheconditionoilBlackCatOilismostfrequentlyusedfor
benevolentpurposes,todrawprotection,goodfortune,and
attention from the opposite sex. However, it may also be
used to turn a trick. The combination of wax and pins re-
quires no doll.
1. Hold a black candle in your hands and charge it
with your intention.
2. Carveitwithyourenemy’snameandanyidentify-
ing information pertaining to that person.
3. Dress the candle withBlack Cat Oil.
4. Pierce the candle with five pins placed vertically,
approximately one inch apart.
5. Lightyourcandleandletitburnuntilthefirstpin
drops out.
6. Pinch out the candle and reserve it.
7. Thefollowingnight,lightthecandleagainandlet
it burn until the next pin drops out.
8. Burn in nightly increments until the final pin
drops out.
9. Pinch the candle out yet again but this time take
what remains of the candle and throw it against
your enemy’s front door.553/901
10. Walkawaywithoutlookingback,returninghome
via a circuitous route.
Curse Tablets
Themostcommonhexoftheancientworldappearstohave
been Curse Tablets. At least they’re the most common arti-
factsfound.Createdfrommetal,cursetabletssurvive,asno
doubt intended, for millennia, unlike more ephemeral wax,
paper, and fabric methods. Curse tablets are small sheets of
metal, inscribed with specific curses naming the target and
whatdestinyiswishedforhimorher.Havingbeeninscribed,
thetabletsweretraditionallytossedintowellsorsprings,and
arefrequentlydedicatedtothespiritofthespringasifexpect-
ingthespirittoactuallycarryoutthecurse.Therewerepro-
fessional curse tablet makers; we know this because blanks
havebeenfound,standardformulaswithspaceslefttoincor-
porateaname.However,becausesoftmetalisusedandlittle
skill is required, this was always also easy do-it-yourself
hexing.
The most favored metal is lead, for two reasons. First,
leadisundertheleadershipofSaturn,aplanetwithadour,
unforgivingreputation.Saturn,onceknownbyastrologersas
theGreaterMalefic,iswhereonediscoverslife’sharshlimits,
whichiswhatthetargetofthespellisexpectedtodiscover.
Second, and on a more prosaic note, lead is heavy. It sinks
anddoesn’trise.Asthebestwaytoundoacursetabletisto
discover and destroy the tablet, using lead virtually ensures
the success of the spell.
InancientRomethemostpowerfulcursetabletswerebe-
lievedcreatedonleadstolenfromsewerpipes.Ifyouwanted554/901
toplayaroundwiththeform,andablessingtabletcouldjust
aseasilybecreated,cursetabletsareevenmoreeasilycreated
from tin or wax.
1. Determine thedesired effects youwish thetablet
to deliver.
2. Cut out a sheet of metal or wax.
3. Inscribe it with your desire, naming your target
andhisorheridentifyinginformationasexplicitly
as possibly.
4. Traditionally tablets are dropped into springs or
wellsorattachedtosewerwalls.Ablessingtablet
might be affixed to a shrine or altar.
The Cursing Psalm
Thepowertohealcanbethepowertoharm.Evensomething
as intrinsically good and sacred as a psalm may be used
malevolently.Psalm109hasbeencalled“thecursingpsalm.”
It may be chanted to harm an enemy.
Thepsalmitselfisinherentlybenevolent.It’syouremo-
tionandintentionthattransformit.Thereforethefirststep
is to be in the right mood. Then start chanting and
visualizing.
Cursing Stones
ChargingastonewithmalevolenceisanancientCelticmeth-
od of delivering a curse. Charge the stone by holding it in
yourhandswhileallowingyourselftobeengulfedbyfeelings555/901
ofrage,jealousy,anger,orhatred.Thestonewillstorethis
emotion. Whencharging iscomplete, terminate theprocess
by setting the stone down and consciously changing your
train of thought. Reserve the stone for future use.
Should one wish to curse someone or something, hold
the stone within your hands, stroking it, while turning it
counter-clockwise and murmuring curses.
Damnation Powder
Considerwhethercastingthisspellisworthit.Althoughit’s
believed to be a potent hex, the hex-caster allegedly is left
with hell to pay.
RefertotheFormularyandcreatethepowderbasefor
Damnation Water. Drop nine pinches of Damnation
Powder, one at a time, into a flaming cauldron, intoning
the target’s name as each pinch falls.
Damnation Water Hexes
These are revenge spells, spells cast from anger. Because
Damnation Water, like War Water, can either confer a
hexorbreakone,theemotionalintentofthespell-casterde-
termines the outcome.
Damnation Water: Basic Hex
SprinkleDamnationWateronthepathwhereyourenemy
is sure to walk.556/901
Damnation Water: Extra Strength
1. Soak parchment in blended Damnation Water
and Four Thieves Vinegar.
2. When the paper dries, write every variation of
yourtarget’snameonit.(Formaximumstrength,
useBat’s Blood Ink.)
3. Carve and dress a black candle against your
enemy.
4. Burn the paper in the flame of the candle.
5. Reservetheashesoftheparchmenttosprinkleon
your enemy’s property.
Dog Hex
This spell allegedly destroys your target’s peace and har-
mony, sowing enmity and discord instead.
1. Hang out in a dog park. Eventually, inevitably,
some dogs will have a fight. This is what you’re
waitingfor:lookforamassfree-for-all,complete
with gnashing teeth and wild barking.
2. Don’tgetbetweenthedogswhenthey’refighting,
but when the battle ends gather up a handful of
dirt from where the dogs were fighting.
3. Pick some cat hairs off a cat-lover’s sofa or
clothing.
4. Grind the dirt and hair together with salt, black
pepper,andcayenneorhabaneropeppersothata
fine powder is created.557/901
5. Sprinkle this powder wherever you wish to sow
enmity.
Doll Hex Basic Pins and Needles
Doll
Theterm“voodoodoll”hasenteredtheEnglishlanguagebut
malignstheVodoureligion.Themagicaltraditionofpierced
waxdolls,forbothpositiveandnegativepurposes,isancient
and international, dating back at least to the days of the
Egyptians and appearing virtually all around the world.
Here is a Hungarian Romany version:
1. Create a figure to represent your target from
melted candle wax.
2. Addbitsofthetarget’sclothingandanyintimate
items that you may possess—hair, nail clippings,
and so forth.
3. When the doll is finished, allow the doll to harden.
4. Prickitwithaneedleasthespiritmovesyoubut
always in a series of three or nine.
Enmity Spells
Sometimeshexesarevague:thespell-castersimplywantsthe
target to suffer. General misery, in any form the universe
wishestodoleout,isacceptable.Sometimes,however,ahex
isveryspecific;aspecificendresultisdesired.Frequentlythe
desire is to transform love into its opposite.558/901
Enmity Spell (1) Break Up Spell
Thisspellisintendedtocauseenmitybetweentwowhocur-
rentlyloveeachotherorarecloselyattached.Theremaybe
desire to break up a marriage, a romantic attachment, a
business partnership, or a friendship.
Boilablackhen’segginyourownurine.Feedhalfthe
eggtoadog,theothertoacat,saying:“Asthesetwohate
one another, so may hatred fall between [Name] and
[Name].”
Enmity Spell (2) General Discord
Tosowgeneraldiscordwithinahome,buryafoundcrow’s
feather in the target’s house. (It must be a found feather;
take it by force and watch the spell backfire on you.) This
spell,fromIndia,derivesfromaregionwiththatchedroofs
and so was easily accomplished. You never actually had to
getinsidethehome.However,anyotherdiscreetplaceinthe
residence will do. Under the front step, where the target is
bound to step over it, should be equally effective.
Enmity Spell (3) Separation
Powder
Black pepper
Cayenne or habanero powder
Cinnamon
Galangal559/901
Vetiver
Metallic sand
Separationpowderallegedlydoeswhatitsnamepromises:
separates formerly devoted lovers or partners. Sprinkle it
where the targeted couple will be together.
Empty Wallet Hex
Somehexesaresubtle,suchasthisRomanyspellintendedto
create a negative financial impact.
Giveanewwalletasagift,straightfromthestore,ina
nicebox,withnothinginit.Doesn’tsoundlikeahex,doesit?
Thetargetofthespellwillprobablybehappytoreceiveit,
unlessthey’resophisticatedenoughtorealizethey’vejustac-
cepted a wish for a perpetually empty purse.
Themoralofthestory?Alwaysstickatleastapennyin-
to a wallet before giving it as a gift—and be wary of gifts
received.
Foot Track Hexes
Althoughfoottrackmagiccanbeusedforpositivemeansas
easilyasnegative,ithassomethingofabadreputation,oneit
has retained for millennia: Pythagoras warned against its
misuses.560/901
Foot Track Spell (1) Curse of the
Running Feet
Cheatingmenwho’veabandonedtheirsweetheartsattheal-
tar should be wary of the vila. If these Eastern European
Fairies catch them, they’ll dance these men to death as a
formofjustice.(Thisisthemythologicalbasisfortheballet,
Giselle.)Hoodoo,ontheotherhand,hasthecurseofrunning
feet.
Mix the dirt from your target’s footprint with cayenne
pepper, and throw it into running, living waters. This al-
legedly causes your target to run from place to place, un-
ceasingly, without rest, ultimately with disastrous results.
Foot Track Spell (2) Hobble their
Steps
A German foot track spell is intended to render someone
lame,althoughwhetherliterallyorfigurativelyissubjectto
debate.
1. Gather Earth from the footprint.
2. Placeitinapottogetherwithanail,aneedle,and
some shards of broken glass.
3. Heat the pot until it cracks.561/901
Foot Track Spell (3) Walk into
Danger
Burnsomeone’sfootprinttocauseillnessorworse.Thisspell
derivesfromRussia,whereformaximumpoweritwouldbe
burnedinthebathhouseatmidnight,thepointbeingthatit
was burned in a sacred yet dangerous place.
To Prevent Someone from
Casting a Foot Track Spell on
You
These spells are to protect against danger from either foot
track spells or any malicious magic absorbed through the
feet—powders or secret tricks one walks over, for instance.
Their goal is to prevent rather than break an already-cast
spell:hex-breakersorspellreversalsarerequiredinthatun-
fortunate circumstance.
Prevent a Foot Track Hex (1)
Devil’s Shoestrings
Devil’s shoestrings are roots derived from the Viburnum
botanicalfamily.Theirnameconfusespeoplewhothinkthat
therootsmustbeusedforevilpurposes.Quitethecontrary:
devil’s shoestrings allegedly tie the devil’s shoes together to562/901
prevent him, or evil in general, from successful pursuit.
Worn as an ankle bracelet, devil’s shoestrings repel foot
trackcurses.Thisspellrequiresninedevil’sshoestringroots
ofequallength.Theycannotbecuttosizebutmustbechosen
carefully.
1. Knot,braid,orweavetherootstogethertoforman
ankle bracelet.
2. Attach a tiny piece of real silver, whether a coin,
bead, or lucky charm and wear it for protection.
Prevent a Foot Track Hex (2)
Henna
Hennacreatesaprotectiveshieldwhenappliedtothesoles
ofthefeet.Althoughbeautifulpatternsarealwaysapleasure
and decorating with auspicious, protective symbols will no
doubtenhancethepotency,they’renotnecessaryforthepur-
pose. If you’re pressed for time, dip your sole into henna
paste for a solid coat of henna.
Prevent a Foot Track Hex (3)
Pepper
Sprinkle black pepper and cayenne pepper in your shoes.
You may also rub it directly into the soles of your feet.563/901
Name Paper Spells
Whoneedsintimateitemswhenyouhaveaname?Onceupon
atime(andsometimesstilltoday),itwasbelievedthatifyou
possessed someone’s true name you also possessed control
over that person.
Name Paper Hex (1) Active Spell
1. Writethenameofyourtargetclearlyonapieceof
paper as well as any other identifying information.
2. Dress it with a drop ofCommanding Oil.
3. Hold it in your hand, close your eyes, and focus
your desire.
4. Nowdosomethingtothepapertodemonstratein-
jurytothetarget.Forinstance,placingthename
paperunderdrumswhilethey’replayedallegedly
causes the victim to suffer headaches. Can you
imagine what taping it inside a pair of cymbals
might do?
Name Paper Hex (2) Lemon
Asimplepieceoffruitmaybeaseffectiveasawaximage:
writethefullnameofthevictimonaslipofpaper.Stickpins
through the paper into a lemon, to cause bitterness and a
sour existence.564/901
Name Paper Shoe Hex
This hex derives from Central American magical traditions.
1. Capture one of your target’s shoes.
2. Write the target’s name, mother’s name, and any
identifying information on a slip of paper.
3. Placethispaperwithintheshoe—liftupthesoleso
it doesn’t fall out, if necessary.
4. Do to the shoe whatever you visualize happening
to your target.
Peppermint Candle Spell
Peppermintoil,usuallyabenevolentcomponentofromantic
andhealingspells,isalsousedasahexingagentincandle
spells to bring harm and unhappiness to one’s enemy.
1. Writeyourenemy’snameandyourdesiresforhim
or her on a piece of brown paper.
2. Carve a black candle as you deem appropriate.
3. Add some peppermint essential oil to mineral
(baby) oil and use this to dress the candle.
4. Hold the candle in your hands, charging it with
your intentions.
5. Place the paper beneath the candle and burn the
candle.565/901
War Water Spells
War Water, also known as Water of Mars, is a classic for-
mulathatharnessesthepowerofirontosendahex,repela
hex,orprotectagainstallsortsofmalevolentenergy.Differ-
ent recipes may be used to create benevolent or malevolent
War Water; check theFormularyfor details.
War Water Hex Maximum
Strength
GatherSpanishmoss.AddittotheaggressiveformofWar
Waterand use as desired.
War Water Spell (1) Basic
ThemostcommonmodeofadministeringWarWateristo
splashyourtarget’sdoorstepwithit.However,asthisisthe
mostcommonmethodofcastinganyWarWaterspelltar-
getedatanotherforwhateverpurpose,it’scrucialthatwhile
splashing,allofyourattentionisintentlyfocusedonthede-
sired outcome of your spell.566/901
War Water Spell (2) Houseplant
A Hoodoo houseplant jinx suggests that the hex-caster
sprinkleWarWaterontheleavesandrootsofareallynice
plant and give it to the target as a gift.
War Water Spell (3) Name Paper
1. Write your adversary’s name and identifying in-
formation on a strip of brown paper.
2. Place it in a jar and cover it withWar Water.
3. Seal it tight and hide it in a dark, secret place.
4. Shake the jar periodically.
Weeping Willow Hex
This spell allegedly makes your enemy cry, weep, and moan.
1. Obtain a weeping willow branch.
2. Water it for nine days, retaining any water that
doesn’tevaporate.(Justkeepaddingmorewater.)
This gives you nine days to consider and recon-
sider your plan of action.
3. Pourthewateronthefrontdoorstepofyourtarget
to stimulate tears in that home.567/901
Reversing Spells
Originally I didn’t intend to include hexes in this book be-
causeit’sreallynotnecessary:ifyouareangry,frustrated,bit-
ter, or resentful enough, virtually any spell you cast can be
convertedtoahex.However,foreveryformalhexormalevol-
entspellthatexists,thereareatleasttwotorepelorremove
thespell.ItisimpossibletounderstandReversing,Protection,
orUncrossingSpellswithoutconsideringthemalevolenceof
hexes.
Antidote spells or spells to break a hex take various
forms, although there can be considerable overlap between
them.
• Hex-breakers generally focus on breaking the
malevolent spell only
• Uncrossingspellsgenerallyfocusonremovingthe
effectsofwhatmightbeahex.Theeffectsarereal
but the cause may be only suspected. If misfor-
tuneisindeedcausedbyahex,someuncrossing
spellswillreverseitbacktoitssender,althoughif
this not the case, no harm will be done
• Antidotes are exactly what they promise to be:
they counteract the effects of a specific type of
spell
• Reversingspellsbreakthehexandreturnittoits
sender
Someofthesereturn-to-senderspellsaredependentonyour
knowing the identity of the spell-caster, while others will
automatically return-to-sender without that knowledge. You
can rest assured that the spell has been returned; however,568/901
you may never know the identity of your oppressor—not for
sure, anyway.
There is also a spell to transform negative energy sent
your way into the positive energy that you truly desire instead.
Beyondthethree-foldlawandbeyondbasicethics,there
isanotherexcellentreasonfornotengaginginhexes.Should
your hex be effective, eventually the target of your spell will
suspectthattheyhavebeenvictimized.Althoughpeoplewill
swearthattheywillonlyresorttohex-breakersanduncross-
ing spells, if someone gets sufficiently angry and afraid, the
standardresponsetendstobeareversingspellandoftenthe
most malevolent kind. What’s the difference between many
reversing spells and hexes? Well, the reversing spell-caster
wasn’t the one who initiated the situation and frequently
that’saboutit.Afterawhile,frankly,itcanbeveryhardtore-
memberwhoactuallystartedthewholemalevolentaffair.Ini-
tiatingahexisrarelyaquick-fix,effortlessmethodofremov-
inganenemy.Whatinitiatingahexusuallydoesinsteadisto
initiatepsychicwarfare—awitchwar—withdetrimental,dam-
aging effects to all involved as well as their loved ones and
many innocent bystanders.
Antidotes
Accordingtosociologistsandnon-magicpracticing scholars,
the reason hexes are frequently so effective (particularly in-
timidatingpublicdoorsteponeslikecoffinspells)isthatthe
targetbelieveshimorherselftobedoomedandthuswastes
away.Theremaybeagrainoftruthtothis:whyisitthatso
many have a hard time taking love and good fortune spells
seriouslyyetatthesametimeliveinmortalfearofhexes?A569/901
hex doesn’t necessarily spell doom; it just sets a process in
motion. Don’t be passive. Just as every poison has its anti-
dote, so does every spell.
These antidotes specifically target a genre of spell; if
you’reunsurehowthespellwascastorifthereisn’tananti-
dotetosuityoursituation,choosehex-breaking,uncrossing,
or reversing spells instead.
Antidote: Bewitched Food
Toremoveandrepelaspellcastwhenyouacceptedagiftof
bewitched food:
1. Throw any remaining food into fire.
2. Slap the fireplace chimney with a broom.
3. Slap all windows with a broom.
4. Slap all entrance doors with a broom.
5. The removal is complete. Follow up with strong
house and personal cleansings.
Antidote: Curse Tablets
Thisamulet,fromAsiaMinor,whatistodaymodernTurkey,
isessentiallyananti-cursetablet.Inusearoundthedawning
oftheCommonEra,theamulet’sform,engravedwritingon
asmallmetalplate,isknownasa“lamella.”It’snothardto
cut out tin and scratch an incantation into its surface. The
originalwasaddressedtoadeityorprotectivespirit.Adapt
as inspired.570/901
The ancient text reads something like:
Drive away the curse from[Name]child of[Name].
Ifanyoneharmsmeinthefuture,iftheyattempttoharmme
in the future,
Throw that curse back where it comes from!
An alternative version: “Free [Name] child of [Name] from
allhexcraftandallsufferingandallmagicalinfluencebynight
and by day.”
Keepthelamellainasafe,secretplaceorthrowitdown
a deep well.
Antidote: Foot Track Magic
Obtain your own footprint. Carry it until a windy moment
presents itself then toss the footprint down the wind.
Antidote: Iron Curse Basic
ThisGermanspellantidotescursescastwithiron,including
WarWaterspells.Howdoyouknowwhetheryou’reavictim
of such a spell? Signs that such a spell has been cast are
whenapersonsuddenlyandconsistentlybeginstohaveac-
cidentswithsmallmetalimplements,suchasknivesorscis-
sors,whichbecomeprogressivelymoreserious,graduating
to car accidents or industrial accidents.
This is the bare-bones spell and the version most pop-
ularly circulated. The antidote is easy to accomplish any571/901
time.Theringsmaybere-usedandmanyperformthisspell
as a regularly scheduled preventive measure.
1. Place three small iron rings in spring water
overnight or for 24 hours in a serious case. (By
rings, jewelry isn’t necessarily meant, although
this could be used, but rather any circle formed
from iron: hardware stores often sell small metal
rings for various purposes.)
2. After the time has elapsed, remove the rings and
drink the water.
Antidote: Knot Magic
Theverysimplestantidotetoknotmagicistofindthestring
and untie the knots. Should you be unable to locate the
string, reciting the Koran’s Surah CXIII allegedly undoes
any evil worked via knot magic.
Sometimes you can’t miss a trick. Has your doorstep been
“dusted?”Didyouopenthefrontdoortodiscoverevidenceof
a spell laid against you? Tricks may be laid via various
powders, Goofer Dust, War Water, nasty little coffins,
chickenparts,blackcandlestubs,rotteneggs,orworse.Don’t
despair; you’re not doomed. There are several remedies,
which may also be combined for maximum coverage if
desired.572/901
Antidote: Hex Objects Standard
Removal and Repelling
ThisHoodoospellcanbeusedasanantidotetoanytypeof
object-drivenhex,whethertheitemswereleftonyourdoor-
step, buried in your garden, or secreted within your home.
Thefirststepisremoval:findallthepiecesandgather
themup,wrappingtheminafabricpacketandfoldingaway
fromyou.Thentakethepackettoacrossroadsatmidnight,
and burn everything.
Antidote: Wax Image Spell Seven
Limes
Thisantidoterequiressevenlimes.Althoughitmaybeper-
formedforoneself,itismosteffectiveifyouhaveanassist-
ant doing the squeezing and bathing.
1. The target of the hex must stand within a large
metal washtub.
2. Cutthelimesinhalfandsqueezethejuiceintothe
tub.
3. Dumpthesqueezed-outfruits,thelimepeel,into
the tub as well.
4. Wash your body with lime juice.
5. Whenthebathiscomplete,stepoutofthetub,let
yourself air-dry and put on fresh, clean clothes.
6. Leavethelimepeelinthewashbasinuntilevening
whenitisdeposited,preferablyinthesea,butat573/901
least far from home. There should be no further
bathing for 24 hours.
Hex-breaking
Angelica Hex-breaker
Makeaninfusionofangelicaroot.Addthisinfusiontoyour
bathtoremovecurses,hexes,andbadspells.Essentialoilof
angelica may be used instead of an infusion; however, be
aware that it has phototoxic properties. Avoid exposure to
the sun following use.
Anti-Sorcery Headwash
This is not a preventive measure but is effective if you’ve
already been hit by a malevolent spell. In the traditional
Chineseformula,theheadisentirelyshornbeforethehead
wash.Ifthisisnotdesirable,makesurethescalpiscleansed
as well as the hair.
Wash the scalp and hair with an infusion made from
mugwort, garlic, honeysuckle, and broomstraws.574/901
Ash Hex-breaker
Gather fallen ash leaves. Murmur your concerns and fears
overthemandthentakethemtothecrossroadsanddisperse
them in all directions.
Bamboo Hex-breaker
Inscribe your goal, wish, or prayer onto bamboo wood.
Grind it into powder, then burn it to break a hex.
Cayenne Hex-breaker
Sprinklecayennepepperthroughoutthehometobreakany
malevolent spells.
Chamomile Hex-breaker
Sprinklechamomilearoundtheperimeterofyourhomeand
property to break spells against you.575/901
Compelling Curse Breaker
Spells
Command that hex to bow down and crawl away! Powerful
botanicals, like spirits and people, tend to be multifaceted.
Strong Commanding formulas, most frequently used for
DominationSpellsmayalsobeusedforhex-breaking,asthey
alsopossessaprotectiveaspect.Essence of Bend Overis
particularlystrongbutusewhicheverformulaappealstoyou
most.
Compelling Curse Breaker Bath
Massage Essence of Bend Over Oil into your skin and
then enter a bath containing salted water.
Compelling Curse Breaker Powder
Use this powder to supplement any other hex-breaker spell
asanextramagicalenhancement.Grindandpowdersweet
flag/calamus, licorice root, peppermint, and vetiver. Blend
with arrowroot powder and dust your body.
Curse Removal
Legendstellofindividualsinnocentlyobtainingobjects,typ-
ically ancient idols, jewels, or magical weapons, marked576/901
withacurse.Ever-worseningmisfortuneaccompaniespos-
sessionoftheobject.Sometimesmalevolentindividualsgive
giftslikethisonpurpose.Ifyouaremerelytheinnocentre-
cipientofthiscurse(inotherwords,you’renottheonewho
brokeintothetomb,stoletheobject,andactivatedthecurse),
this technique may lift it, enabling you to be safe and per-
haps even retain the object, if you still want it.
Pass a handful of salt around the object three times.
Then throw the salt into an open fire, without looking into
the fire.
Draw Back Evil!
To rid yourself of evil magic:
1. BringanofferingtotheFullMoon.Thisisbased
onoldMesopotamianrituals:theirofferingsmight
include beer, wine, incense, or perfume. Offer
what you feel is appropriate.
2. Tell the moon the deep secrets and fears of your
heart.
3. Chant:
Evil Magic, draw back!
Evil Magic can’t come near!
Ginseng Hex Removal
Burn ginseng to break a hex.577/901
Jinx Removing Powder
ThisformulaspecificallyantidotesJinxPowder,butitisalso
used to remove any malevolent spells, hexes, or crossed
conditions:
Dried ground hydrangea blossoms
Dried agrimony
Dried wisteria
Grind and powder all the ingredients together. Blend with
ricepowderifamore“powdery”textureisdesired.Sprinkle
throughoutyourhome,overyourthresholds,andwherever
you sense vulnerability.
Lucky Spirits Oil
Letthespiritsbreakthecurse!Thisoilallegedlysendsoutan
SOS to benevolent spirits. Combine this spell with intensive
spiritual petition.
Addessentialoilsofbergamot,citronella,frankincense,
and sandalwood to sweet almond oil. Use this oil to dress
candles.
Michael the Archangel Hex-breaker
Spell
Archangel Michael vanquishes hexes, demons, and curses
with his flaming sword. Have you heard the legend that a578/901
spellcan’tberemovediftheonewhocastithassincedied?
Or that a hex can’t be removed unless you find the object
used to cast it? Michael can remove them.
1. Grind frankincense, dragon’s blood, and salt and
add them to a base of sweet almond oil.
2. Dress red candles with this oil and burn them in
petition to archangel Michael.
3. Addsomemoreoftheoiltoabathandsoakinit,
visualizingyourselfsurroundedbythecobaltlight
reflected from Michael’s sword.
Ragweed Spell Repellent
Few modern plants have as bad a reputation as ragweed.
Onceuponatime,itspowertostimulatewhatarenowun-
derstoodasallergieswasconsideredatestamentofitsma-
gical powers. Fairies were believed to ride upon ragweed,
earningitsnickname“fairy’shorses.”Witchesallegedlyrode
upon it as well, just like a broomstick. Ragweed will not
workwitheveryone;ifitspresencemakesyouill,theplantis
tellingyousomething.Chooseanotherspell.However,ifyou
can, carry ragweed to break hexes and repel them.
Stinging Nettle Hex-breaker Spell
TheprincessintheGrimmfairytaleTheTwelveSwansisal-
mostburnedasawitchwhilecraftingnettleshirtstobreaka
curse laid on her brothers. It’s largely the nettles that con-
demn her; in Christian Europe, stinging nettles developed579/901
powerful associations with witchcraft. Despite the obvious
careneededtogatherthem(weargloves!),nettlesarevery
beneficial: they are extremely nutritious and can also be
used to create a sort of fabric, as in the story.
Ifyou’rewillingandabletospinandweavenettles,an
effective quick-fix hex-breaker spell exists.
1. Carve a figure candle to represent the afflicted
party, whether yourself or another.
2. Spinandweaveanettleshirtlargeenoughforthe
candle.
3. Literallydressthecandlewiththeshirtandburn
everythingunder the light of the Full Moon.
Sweep Away that Hex!
Based on shamanic ritual, someone else must perform this
spellontheafflictedperson.Useapinebranchcompletewith
needlestosweepthebodyfromheadtotoewhilemurmuring
affirmations, prayers, and sacred verses.
Thistle Hex-breaker
1. Spin and weave thistles into “fabric.”
2. Create a garment from it—any kind—to break a
hex. Shirts are traditional, but any garment will
do.
3. The entire creation process from start to finish
constitutesthespell.Thegarmentiscreatedwith580/901
intent.Oncethegarmentisplacedonthebodythe
spell is complete and the hex is broken.
Spell Reversals
Spellreversalsdomorethanjustbreakahexandremoveits
effects;thesespellscreateaboomerangeffect,returningthe
spell to wherever it came from.
Absinthe Oil
Thisisnotessentialoilofwormwood!Essentialoilofworm-
woodisamongthemostdangerousessentialoilsandshould
onlybeusedunderthemostexpertsupervision(andmostex-
perts avoid it!).
Soak wormwood roots, leaves, and stems in castor oil.
(Ifyoureallydespiseyourtarget,usemineraloilasabase
instead.)Castoroildoesnotfloweasily;dilutewithjojobaor
oliveoilasneeded.Thisisanoilofrevenge,anoilofjustice:
it sends harm back to an evil-doer. Secretly apply it to the
bodyofyourenemysothattheharmtheyhavecausedwill
revert back to them.
Black Cross Reversing Spell
Dress a black cross (altar) candle with Uncrossing Oil
and Flying Devil Oil. Visualize the hex leaving you and
flying toward its original sender.581/901
Black Skull Candle
Use a Black Skull Candle to reverse a spell.
1. Carve the candle as desired.
2. Dress withFlying Devil Oil.
3. Focus on your hopes and desires as the candle
burns.
4. Dispose of the candle remnants outside of your
home, returning via a circuitous route.
Blackthorn Reversing Spell
1. Collect five thorns from a blackthorn tree.
2. Createawaximage;itcanbeagenericimage.It
doesn’thavetorepresentanyspecificperson.It’s
not necessary for you to know who wished you
harm; if someone did, this spell will find them.
3. Stick one thorn through each hand saying, “The
evil that you have crafted returns to you.”
4. Stickonethornthrougheachfootsaying,“Theevil
that you visit upon me returns back to you.”
5. Stick the last thorn into the image’s head saying,
“The evil that you think and conceive returns to
you.”
6. Burn or bury the image.582/901
Elm Reversing Spell
Elmisamagicaltree,associatedwithbothelvesandfairies
andconsideredunderthedominionofMotherHolle.Itmay
beusedtoremoveandreverseahex.Grindandpowderelm
twigsandleaves.Addittoyourbathwatertobreakahex
and return it.
Foot Track Reversal Spells
Ifyouknoworsuspecttheidentityofthepersonwhocrossed
you, gather all the dirt from their footprint carefully in a
bag. Sprinkle it on whatever has been hexed. This is espe-
ciallyeffectivewhenthereareactualphysicalmanifestations
of the hex—actual objects to sprinkle it on.
Ifyou’rewronginyouridentificationoftheperpetrator
and that person has not hexed you, no harm will be done.
Hydrangea Hex Reversal
Burn dried hydrangea to reverse spells and remove hexes.
Blend the ashes with more dried, ground hydrangea and
scatter around the home.583/901
Identity Well Known Hex Reversal
Tosendahexbacktosomeoneyouknowishexingyou,you
willneedsomethingthatbelongstotheperson—ideallyhair
or fingernails, but any object will do.
1. Lay down a black cloth.
2. Put a small mirror onto it.
3. Put the jinxer’s personal item atop the mirror.
4. Write their name on a slip of paper.
5. Write your own name over that name, while
chanting:
Icoveryou,Icrossyou,Icoveryou,Icrossyou,
You put a spell on me, Now it returns to you
6. Cover the mirror and paper completely with sea
salt.
7. Wrap it up in the black cloth, folding away from
you.
8. Bury it at a crossroads, ideally at sunrise, and
ideally under the Full Moon.
Reversal Candle
A Reversal Candle to reverse a spell cast against you:
1. Get a new seven-day candle.
2. Turn it upside down. Carve the bottom of the
candlesothatthewickisnowexposedandmaybe
lit.
3. Slice the top off the candle so that it can stand.584/901
4. Dress the candle. If you know the name of your
jinxer, carve it into the wax.
5. Light the wick and chant:
“Candle,lettheevildoneagainstmereverseitself
as I have reversed you.”
Revocation Spell of Elegba
“Revocations” recall, revoke, or annul something. In this
case,you’dlikeacurserevoked.Elegbaownstheroads,per-
mittingorforbidding passageasheseesfit.So,technically
speaking, the hex that reached you did so with his permis-
sion. Of course, perhaps that one slipped right by him
withoutcatchinghisattention.Drawhiseyetowardthehex;
explaintheinjusticeandrequestthathesendthecurseback
to its sender, simultaneously erecting a shield of protection
around you.
1. Fill a cup two-thirds full withIndigo Water.
2. TopitoffwithFlorida Water, Flying Devil Oil,
Protection Oil, Uncrossing Oil, and
turpentine.
3. Asthisisbeingdone,petitionElegba,ownerofall
roads,tosendtheevilthatisafflictingyouonits
way quickly.
4. Take a small mouthful of rum: hold it in your
mouth, then blow it into the cup.
5. Blow cigar smoke into the cup. (If you don’t
smoke, just waft the cigar smoke over the cup.)
6. Add three nails.
7. Add a camphor square to the cup.585/901
8. Writethenameofyourenemy,ifyouknowwhoit
is, on a piece of brown paper.
9. Put the paper over the cup with the name facing
in.
10. Place a plate on top of it.
11. Quickly reverse the cup so that it is now upside
down on the plate.
12. Place this near a door.
13. Knockthreetimesonthefloor,calling“Openthe
door Papa Legba!”
14. Placeawhitecandleontopofthecupandburnit.
Explain your predicament to Elegba.
Revocation of Archangel Michael
The Revocation of Archangel Michael provides protection
and returns a hex.
1. Write your enemy’s name on a small piece of
paper.
2. Place it inside a glass.
3. Cover the paper with sea salt.
4. Fill the glass with spring water, Carmelite wa-
ter, angelica hydrosol, or any combination of
these.
5. Cover the glass with a saucer.
6. Turnitoverquicklysothatitrestsatopthesaucer,
making sure no water spills or leaks out. (If it
does, start completely from scratch.)
7. Slice a white candle into nine pieces, pulling out
the wicks, so that each becomes a distinct little
candle. Every night for nine consecutive nights,586/901
placeonecandlesliceontopofthereversedglass
and burn it.
8. Petition Michael for assistance while it burns.
War Water Reversal Spell
BoilpinsornailsinWarWater.Allowittocool,strainout
thesolidmaterialandthrowtheliquidinyourtarget’shome
to return a bad spell.
Other Direction Reversal Spell
1. To reverse a reverse, put your clothing on
backwards.
2. Walk backwards while concentrating on sending
the curse back.
Transformation
Living well is the best revenge against a hexer. There are
spellstoneutralizemalevolentmagic.Therearespellstore-
verse and send back malevolent magic. However, this spell
takesthemalevolentenergysomeonehasdeliberatelyaimed
toward you and changes it into your chosen good fortune.
1. Holdasmallblackcandleinyourhandandenvi-
sion all the negative effects of the curse that has
been laid upon you.587/901
2. Whenyou’refinished—andyoushouldreallythink
deeply, even if it isn’t pleasant—place the candle
on a tray covered with brown paper.
3. Wash your hands by rubbing them with either a
salt scrub or dry salt, then rinsing.
4. Hold a white candle in your hands and concen-
trateonavisionofyourlifeasyouwouldlikeitto
be.Seeyourselfhappy,stable,andsecure,withall
that negative energy transformed into positive.
5. Place this candle on the tray too.
6. Considerwhatyouneedtomakethathappyvision
areality.Writedownyourrequirementsoraplan
of action on a piece of brown paper.
7. Placeasmallflatsheetofcopperbetweenthetwo
candles,sothatoneisateachend.(Coppersheets
are available through hardware and art supply
stores.)
8. Place the paper on top of the copper sheet.
9. Light the black candle and say aloud, something
like: “Negative energy transform into good.
Transform into[name your desire].”
10. Light the white candle and say aloud, something
like: “My dreams and desires are accomplished.
Nothing and no one obstructs me.”
Remember, copper is an excellent conductor of heat and
energy!588/901
Uncrossing Spells: Removing
a Crossed Condition
NewOrleansVoodooandHoodoohaveincorporatedChristi-
aniconographyinunorthodoxmanners.Anyvisittoaspiritu-
alsupplystorewillturnupwhitecandlesshapedlikecrosses
or crucifixes. Magic is in the eye of the beholder. These
candles may be used in any way that makes sense to the
candleburnerandsothesecandlesarefrequentlyusedasal-
tar candles; however, they’re really intended for uncrossing
rituals. The terminology derives from that old metaphor
aboutone’scrossbeingtooheavytobear.Inhoodootermino-
logy—and hoodoo is a genre that loves to play with
words—this is known as a “Crossed Condition.” Uncrossing
candles,oils,andritualsaimtoremovethatcrossanduncross
that crossed condition.
A crossed condition may derive from any number of
sources,althoughamalevolenthexismostcommon.TheEvil
Eye may also cause it. Uncrossing spells are less concerned
withwheremisfortunecamefromandwhereitshouldbere-
directed than simply making sure it leaves you for good, al-
though some will reverse a spell. All uncrossing spells are
most effective when accompanied by hex-breaking baths,
prayer, petition, and/or fervent repetition of psalms.
Uncrossing Spell: Basic Candle (1)
How do you get rid of a cross? You burn it. Dress a white
cross candle with Uncrossing Oil, light it and burn.589/901
Uncrossing Spell: Basic Candle (2)
Some manufacturers sell special “Uncrossing” seven-day
candles.
1. DresswithUncrossingOil(drillholesinthetop
ofthecandleifitwon’tslidefromthesleeveand
drip the oil into the holes).
2. Burn the candle.
Uncrossing Spell: Basic Candle (3)
Combineapurplecandle,indicatingpersonalpower,witha
whitecrosscandle.DressbothwithUncrossingOil,burn
and pray.
Uncrossing Spell: Black Cat
Letablackcatuncrossyourpath.BlackCatOilisusedto
attract the opposite sex, garner luck, and break hexes too!
Sprinkle it at all entrances to your home to reverse, repel,
and remove malign influences.
Uncrossing Spell: Rosemary
This spell breaks a curse and will also lift the Evil Eye.590/901
1. Put nine drops of essential oil of rosemary in a
glass of rainwater.
2. Add nine drops ofUncrossing Oil.
3. Stiritupandplaceitinthewindow.Leaveitthere
for three days.
4. Onthefourthday,sprinklethiswaterthroughout
the house, concentrating on corners, dark spots,
and any areas that feel “creepy.”
5. Atthesame time, add rosemary essential oil and
Uncrossing Oil to your bathwater.
Uncrossing Mojo
Addthefollowingtoaredflanneldrawstringbag:ascoopof
crossroads dirt, a rusty iron nail, a small magnetic horse-
shoe, and a real silver bead or charm. Dress the bag with
Uncrossing Oiland carry with you.
You can incorporate other charms or religious medals
as desired.
Witch Bottles
Spellscanbecastwithinfabricpouches,cigarboxes,andfur-
niturecabinets.Onceuponatime,spellscastinsealedglass
bottles were very popular. Witch bottles, as these spells are
known, derive their name from two sources.
The most obvious is that witches were assumed to cast
spells using glass bottles. In addition, witch bottles were a
popular method of breaking hexes allegedly cast by witches.591/901
Whetherwitchbottleswereeveraspopularassomeclaimis
worthpondering.They’velargelyfallenoutoffavorbecause,
ingeneral,witchbottlesfavorextremelydangerousmethods.
Frankly, you’re far more likely to be seriously injured from
one ofthese bottles than from acurse. I strongly recom-
mend against casting any of the traditional witch
bottlesspells.Safer,modernadaptationsarepresentedfol-
lowing the old ones.
Witch bottles basically exist for one of two purposes:
• To provide spiritual protection
• To reverse a malicious spell
Protection Bottles
Protection Bottle (1)
To protect against malevolent magic:
1. Place a single castor bean in a small glass bottle.
2. Seal it tightly. Keep one bottle and bean in each
room of the house.
3. Replace the beans at every New Moon.
Warning! Castor beans are poisonous. Do not leave the
bottlewhereachildoranimal(oranunknowingadult)has
access to it.592/901
Protection Bottle (2)
1. Fill a tiny vial with mercury.
2. Seal it tightly shut.
3. Place this bottle inside a second larger bottle or
jar.
4. Fill this second container with water and seal
tightly shut.
5. Placethissecondbottleintoanevenlargerjaror
bottle.
6. Fillthiswithseasand,seashells,andpebblesfrom
the beach.
7. Seal tightly shut and bury it. Traditionally this is
buried in the hearth or by the home’s front
entrance.
Warning! Mercury is an extremely toxic substance.Love Magic
The universal stimulus for magic, there are more love
spells,moredifferenttypesoflovespellsthananyotherkind
ofmagic.Therearespellstofindlove,loselove,repairlove,
andtodiscourageonelovebutencourageanother.BasicLove
Spells are grouped together, followed by more specialized
concerns:
• Binding Spells
• Break-Up Spells
• Love Potions
• Heartbreak and Disappointment Spells
• Sex and Seduction Spells
• Male Virility Spells
• Summoning Spells
Someofthesespellsarealotoftroubletocast.Somemaybe
perceivedas“disgusting”ordemandthatthespell-casterdo
humiliatingorunpleasantthings.Althoughtheoreticallymost
spellsarecastinsecret,inmanycases,it’salmostimpossible
forthetargetofsomegenresoflovespellsnottoknowaspell
has been cast or at the very least to think that you’re doing
something crazy. (Consider the spell that demands that you
bathethespelltarget’sprivatepartswithapotionwhilethey
sleep: how can the other party not wake up mid-spell?)
There are two things to remember: first, it can be very
flatteringtohavesomeonegothroughsomuchtroubleoutof
loveanddesireforyou.Thismayevenaccountforaportion
of the effectiveness. And second, spells that are a lot of
trouble, particularly those that are a lot of trouble over an594/901
extended period of time, invite you to examine the crucial
question, is he or she worth it? Particularly with binding
spellswhereyouare,ineffect,bindingyourselvestogetherfor
eternity,ifit’stoomuchtrouble,maybeyoushouldn’tbeper-
forming a binding spell.
TIPS FOR SUCCESSFUL
ROMANTIC MAGIC
• TIMING: In general, all things being
equal, a Friday coinciding with a New
Moon is considered the most auspicious
time to perform love spells. Fridays in
general are the best days for love
spells. The day is named in honor of
Freya, Northern Lady of Love. It is also
the day associated with other powerful
spirits of love, Aphrodite and Oshun
• COLORS FOR LOVE MAGIC: Yellow, or-
ange, pink, and red
• NUMBERS:
Two: the standard number, for the ob-
vious reason
Five:ifyou’dliketoinvokethepowerof
Oshun, Orisha of Love
Six: if you’d like to invoke the power of
Aphrodite, Lady of Love595/901
Eight: if you’d like to invoke the power
of Inanna-Ishtar, Queen of Heaven.
Eight is also the number of infinity and
eternity
• Bathe your hands with rose water prior
to mixing up any love potions or
powders to intensify their effects
• Ifyoufindthatyourlovespellsarecon-
sistently not working, place a strand of
your target’s hair under a continuously
dripping faucet to magically wear away
resistance
Basic Love Spells
Thesearespellstofindnewloveaswellaspreserveandpro-
tect existing romance.
Adam and Eve Root Spells
AdamandEveisthenamegiventotherootsofthefamilyof
orchidsthatgrowfromapairofconjoinedroots.Theroothas
twoforms,maleandfemale(henceAdamandEve),believed
to resemble the respective genitalia. Once upon a time they
were extremely popular, advertised in the backs of comic596/901
booksandcommonlysoldascuriosinspiritualsupplystores.
Today,theplantsareendangeredandtherootsarethusvery
scarce.Theyareconsideredverypowerfulandarefeaturedin
many love spells.
Adam and Eve Root Spell (1) Basic
Spell
Carrytherootsinamojohand.Takethemoutperiodically,
hold them in your hand and charge them with your desire.
Adam and Eve roots like their private time together;
they don’t play well with other botanicals. Don’t add other
roots or plants to an Adam and Eve conjure bag.
Adam and Eve Root Spell (2) Draw
New Love
BeginthisspellattheNewMoontodrawnewloveintoyour
life.
1. Choose Adam and Eve roots to represent the ap-
propriate genderanddressthemwithlove-draw-
ing oil, something likeCome to Me Lover.
2. Placetherootsfacingeachotheronoppositeends
of a mirror.
3. Eachnight,dresstherootswithanadditionaldrop
ofoilandmovethemalittleclosertoeachother.
They should be touching when the Full Moon
arrives.597/901
If you are unable to find Adam and Eve roots, substitute
lodestones or figure candles.
Adam and Eve Root Spell (3) Win
Someone’s Heart
Thisisnotaspellforcasualrelationships;it’sessentiallya
commitment charm.
1. Give the appropriate root to one you desire: an
Eve root to a woman, an Adam to a man.
2. You keep the other.
Amber Spells
Amberispotentiallyapowerfullovecharm,althoughyoumay
have to activate that potential. Romany magical traditions
particularly value amber as a love-drawing charm.
Amber Charm Romany Dreams of
Desire
1. On a Thursday night, make a list of the qualities
you desire in a romantic partner or visualize and
nameaspecificperson.Beforeyougotosleepthat
night,leaveapieceofamberbyyourbedorunder
your pillow.598/901
2. On Friday morning, first thing upon awakening,
clutchtheamberinyourlefthand,holdingitclose
to your heart.
3. Closeyoureyes.Visualizeyourdesire:makeitas
realandtangibleaspossible.Takeasmuchtimeas
you need.
4. Kisstheamberandwrapitupinasmallpieceof
silk, wrapping or rolling toward you.
5. Keep this with you for seven days, carrying it by
day, sleeping with it at night, beside your heart,
between your breasts, wherever.
6. Repeattheprocesseverymorning.Attheconclu-
sion,youwillhaveahighlychargedlove-drawing
amulet.
Thearrowsoflovegostraighttotheheart,andarrowsarefre-
quent components of love spells.
Arrow Spell (1) Diana’s Petition of
Love
Diana, theRomanlunar goddessandmistress ofmagic, to
whom this spell is dedicated, has excellent archery skills.
Don’ttrythisspellunlessyourskillsareworthyofthegod-
dess.Thespellrequiresthatyoushootaflamingarrow.This
is potentially a dangerous spell for more than one reason.
Dianawillnotlookfavorablyuponyourpetitionifyouburn
down her forest.
1. Write out your petition of love.
2. Affix it to an arrow.
3. Set the arrow aflame.599/901
4. Quickly shoot it toward the moon.
Arrow Spell (2) Eight of Wands
Oneofthetraditionalmeaningsoftheeightofwandstarot
cardisloveatfirstsight.Theeightwandsrepresentthear-
rows of love.
1. Carve and dress a red candle as desired, using
love-drawing oils.
2. Burn the candle.
3. Place an eight of wands card upright near the
candle so that it is easily visible.
4. Place a rose quartz beside the card and candle.
5. Once the candle burns down, place the card un-
derneath your pillow so that it can provide ro-
mantic insight and inspiration while you sleep.
6. During the day wear the rose quartz in a charm
bag,pocket,ortuckedintoyourbratoattractand
maintain the love you desire.
Basic Botanicals of Love
Althoughtherearemanyplantsassociatedwithloveandro-
mance,thefollowinghaveallearnedapowerfulreputationas
love-drawing botanicals. In combination they’re even more
potent. Incorporate them into your spells as inspired: basil,
carrots, catnip, chamomile, cardamom, coriander, cubeb,
gardenia,grainsofparadise,hibiscus,hyacinth,iris,jasmine,
lady’s mantle, lavender, lovage, mint, onion, orchid, poppy,600/901
rose, rosemary, Saint John’s Wort, southernwood, strawber-
ries, thyme, tormentil, vervain.
Surround your home with one or more of these living
plants as an open invitation to true love.
Basic Botanicals of Love Candle
Spell
1. Select basic botanicals of love that please you.
2. Choose a pink, red, yellow, or orange candle.
3. Hollow out the base and pack it full of botanicals.
4. Burn the candle.
Bouquet Spells
Presenting someone with a bouquet of flowers was once a
method of delivering a spell right into your target’s hands.
The“LanguageofFlowers,”wherebyeachtypeofflowerrep-
resents a specific message, originated in the harems of the
MiddleEast,wheresecrecyregardingromanticintrigueswas
crucial. That floral code would ultimately be formalized in
VictorianEngland.Somefloralbouquetspells,however,tran-
scend any code.
Bouquet Spell (1) Basic
Thesimplest,yetextremelyeffective,lovespellisthegiftof
roses, either one single bloom or a bouquet of a dozen.601/901
Bouquet Spell (2) Enhanced
Combine roses with myrtle for an especially powerful bou-
quet.BothplantsaresacredtoAphrodite,andtogetherthey
transmitherpowerandbeseechherblessing.Forextraen-
hancement, combine with conscious petition to Aphrodite.
Bouquet Spell (3) Sorcerer’s Violet
The addition of vincas, also known as the sorcerer’s violet,
transforms any bouquet into an instrument of seduction.
1. Sprinkleabouquetofromanticflowerswithdried
powdered vinca flowers, the sorcerer’s violet.
2. Give them to the woman you want.
Candle Spells
Candle Spell (1) Heart Candle
1. Scratch your lover’s initials into a heart-shaped
candle.
2. Dressitwithlovedrawingoilandsprinklewitha
love drawing powder.
3. As it burns, chant:
As this candle burns, so your heart burns with
love for me
Asthiswaxmelts,soyourheartmeltswithlove602/901
for me
Whenthisspelliscomplete,yourheartbelongsto
me!
Candle Spell (2) New Moon
Thisspellismosteffectiveifusinghandcraftedcandles,be-
causeyoucanactuallyembedthemagicalmaterialintothe
wax. However, a store-bought candle may be doctored as
well.
1. Prepare the candles so that this spell is ready to
begin in conjunction with the New Moon.
2. Make two wax figures or purchase figure candles
to represent you and your beloved.
3. Placeafewstrandsofhisorherhairinthecandle
representing the other party. (Pubic hair is most
powerful, with underarm hair a close second.
However if all you have are a few strands picked
off a jacket, this will do.)
4. Place a few of your own hairs in your candle.
5. BeginburningthecandlesattheNewMoon.Face
thecandlesacrossfromeachother.Burnthemin
timedincrements,alittlebiteverynight,gradually
bringing them increasingly closer and closer to
each other.
6. When the candles are finally touching, let them
burn all the way down, so that the waxes
intermingle.
7. Any remaining wax can be saved as a love talis-
man, especially if it’s melted into an auspicious
shape.603/901
Win Your Heart Candle Spell
Thisspellallegedly enables youtowintheheart oftheone
you desire.
1. Carve your name and that of the desired party nine
times each on one pink seven-day candle.
2. Gently warm honey in a bain-marie and then
blend in rosewater and powdered orrisroot.
3. Roll the candle in this mixture and then burn it.
Doll Spells
Thedescription“dollspell”tendstoinvokeimagesofstereo-
typical “voodoo dolls.” However the use of dolls in magical
spellsisincrediblyancientandfairlyuniversal.Dollsareused
forhexingbutthey’realsousedforhealing,protection,fertil-
ity,andromanticspells.Thepiercingofwaxfigureswithpins
goesbackatleastasfarasancientEgypt,howeverthosepins
weren’tmeanttocausebodilyinjury.Insteadtheywereinten-
dedtostimulatepangsofloveanddesirefromwhateverpart
of the body was pierced. Methods of piercing are frequently
more inventive than just sticking needles into the doll.
Doll Spell (1) Binding Spell Hard
Dolls
1. Createtwosmalldollsfromahardmaterial:roots,
wood, or bone.604/901
2. Embellish the dolls: decorate with beads and
fabric.
3. Anointwithloveoilsandwithanyavailablesexual
fluids.
4. Bind them together with red cord, creating knots.
5. Hide themsafely,foraslongasyouwishthero-
mance to last.
Doll Spell (2) More Than a Fling
To turn a sexual relationship into something more:
1. Cutoutdollstorepresenteachpartyfromanun-
laundered bedsheet, stained with sexual fluids.
2. Personalize as much as possible. Embroider or
draw names onto the dolls if secrecy isn’t an issue.
3. Filleachpoppetwithlove-herbs:roses,rosemary,
orrisroot, heartsease, and vervain.
4. Bindthedollstogether,facetoface,bellytobelly
with scarlet ribbons.
5. Wrap the dolls in red or black velvet.
6. Slipthispacketunderthemattressonthesidethe
other party usually sleeps on.
Doll Spell (3) Pinned through the
Heart
1. Makeadollfrommalleablematerials,suchaswax,
clay, dough, or similar.605/901
2. Personalize it: if you possess any intimate items,
incorporate them into the doll. Otherwise, decor-
ate as you please.
3. Scratchanameontothedollorpinaname-tagon
it.
4. Pushabrasspinoranornamentedhat-pin(espe-
cially one with a romantic motif) through the
heart.Thispinisthoughttoopentheheartandin-
duce love for the maker of the doll.
Friendship into Love Spell
Turn friendship into something more:
1. ObtainaLover’sCandle,usuallyaredcandlede-
picting an entwined naked couple or, if you’re a
candle-crafter, create one of your own.
2. Carve the woman’s name on the man’s body and
the man’s name on the woman’s.
3. Anoint with the love oil you like best (Amor,
Jezebel,CometoMeLover!forinstance)and
burn the candle.
Forget-Me-Not Spell
Slipaforget-me-notintosomeone’spocketssothatyouwill
remain on their mind.606/901
Garnet Soul Mate Magnet
Wear garnets to attract the love of your life.
Juniper Spells
Juniperismostcommonlyassociatedwithprotectionspells.
However, juniper berries possess tremendous love drawing
and sexuality enhancing powers.
Warning: Juniper spells are not safe for use during
pregnancy.
Juniper Spell Woman Seeking New
Love
A quicker spell to prepare, ironically it solicits long-term
love, romance, and commitment.
1. Soak juniper berries in vinegar for several hours.
2. Strainouttheberries, reserving some,andadda
generous quantity of the infusion to your bath
water.
3. Enjoy your bath. Vividly visualize the end results
of a very successful spell.
4. Emerge from the bath but don’t drain the water
yet.
5. Toss some used bathwater plus the reserved ber-
riesoutsideontotheEarthnearyourhometosig-
nal your desire for love and your available status.607/901
Easy Juniper Spell
Pierce, string, and wear juniper berries to attract lovers.
Lodestone Love Spells
Lodestone’s magnetic properties inspire their use in love
spells.Lodestonesareusedtodrawlovetowardyouandthen
keepthatlovecloseathand.AccordingtotraditionalChinese
mysticism, the luckiest wedding bands are crafted from
matched lodestones.
Lodestone Love Spell (1) Attraction
Lodestonesarebelievedtohavegenders,justlikeotherliving
creatures. Their gender is determined by appearance: the
rounder-looking ones are female, while the males bear a
phallic resemblance. Choose lodestones to match your de-
sires.Useonetorepresentyourselfandanothertorepresent
the person you would like to draw into a romance.
1. Choosealodestonetorepresentyouandsoakitin
Come To Me Lover Oil!
2. Sprinkleitwithmagneticsandandplaceitonthe
edge of a mirror.
3. Choose a lodestone to represent the person you
wishtodrawintoromance.Itisnotnecessaryfor
the lodestones to be of opposite sex; males may
draw males, and females may draw females.608/901
4. Soak this one inAmor Oil.
5. Sprinkle with magnetic sand and place it on the
mirror, on the opposite edge from the first
lodestone.
6. Carveacandlededicatedtoromanceanddressit
withLucky Lodestone Oil.
7. Lightit,focusonyourwishforromance,andmove
the two lodestones slightly closer to each other.
8. Pinch out the candle.
9. Repeatthisdailyuntilthelodestonesmeetinthe
middle,thenallowthecandletoburnalltheway
down.
Lodestone Love Spell (2) Rosemary
1. Sprinkle dried ground rosemary onto a lodestone.
2. Carryitinacharmbagtodrawloveandattractfa-
vorable attention.
Lovage Spells
Theherblovagelivesuptoitsname:itallegedlyinspireslove
and amorous attention.
Lovage Spell (1) Bath
1. Draw a tub of warm water.
2. Sprinklefreshordriedlovageintoyourbathtoat-
tract romantic attention.609/901
3. Let yourself air-dry.
Lovage Spell (2) Food
Sprinkle lovage on food—fish or chicken is recommen-
ded—ten minutes before serving the meal to your beloved.
Love Attraction Spell
1. Write your target’s name on a small piece of paper.
2. Sprinkle it with the most fragrant fresh flower
petals available.
3. Fold the paper toward you.
4. Hideitwithinyourunderweardrawertomagically
lure the person closer to you.
Love Candle Spell
Thisspellrequirestwocandles,onetorepresentyouandone
to represent the object of your desire.
1. Carve the candles as desired.
2. DressthecandlethatrepresentsyouwithMagnet
OilandCome to Me Lover!
3. Light that candle; it will remain in one place.
4. Dress the other candle with plain olive oil and
sprinkle magnetic sand over it.
5. Burn it in increments, drawing it ever closer to
your candle and sprinkling with magnetic sand.610/901
Love Conjure Bags
Createyourownbagusingromanticcharms,botanicals,and
symbols, or follow one of these formulas.
Conjure Bag (1) Aphrodisiac
This bag promotes faithfulness as well as romance.
1. Takeawholespikenardrootorapieceofone,to-
getherwithalittlebitofhairtakenfromthetailof
a goat.
2. Wrap it in fabric or carry it in a bag.
3. Reinforce periodically by dressing with essential
oilofspikenardoradropofoilinfusedfromthe
root.
Conjure Bag (2) Locket
A locket worn around the neck serves as an elegant charm
bag. The chain also gives it the air of a binding spell.
Place a photo of your beloved inside a locket together
with a strand of hair and a tiny piece of moonwort
(Botrychium lunaria).611/901
Conjure Bag (3) Love in my Pocket
InRomany,aconjurebagisknownasa“putzi,”literallya
“pocket.”
Fillaredsilkbagwithallorsomeofthefollowingin-
gredientstodrawandmaintainloveandromance:amber,
cinnamon, cloves, acorns, rose buds or petals, orrisroot, a
magic ring and an old coin, re-engraved with new sigils.
Love Incense
Love Incense (1) Aloes wood
Burn aloes wood on the Full Moon for a new lover by the
New Moon. Repeat as needed.
Love Incense (2) Deluxe Love
Drawing Powder
Tofindanewlove,grindthefollowingingredientsintoafine
powderandblendthemtogether.Allowyournosetodeterm-
ine the proportions that are correct for you.
Aloes wood
Camphor
Frankincense
Mastic pearls612/901
Myrrh
Orrisroot
Patchouli
Red sandalwood
Saltpeter
Sandalwood
Vetiver
1. Place this powder in a red flannel bag.
2. Carryitbetweenyourbreastsforsevendays;sleep
withitbeneathyourpillowforsevennights.This
may be enough to attract new love.
3. Iftherearenoresultsorpromisingleadsaftersev-
endays,burnapinchofthepowdereverymorning
for seven days.
Magicallyenhancethepowerofyourloveletters.Formaxim-
um effectiveness cast these spells in conjunction with each
other.
Love Letter Spell (1) Bay Leaf
Write an invisible wish on a bay leaf and enclose it in the
envelope.
Love Letter Spell (2) Bay Oil
Dabatinybitofessentialoilofbaylaurelontothecornersof
the letter’s pages.613/901
Love Powders
Onceuponatimemostperfumesweredry.Theywereeasier
totransport,bothintermsoftradeandintermsofpersonal
use:aconjurebagcouldeasilybefilledwithperfumedpowder
and carried with you to use as needed.
Powders are versatile and can be used in various ways:
• Dust powders on the body
• Sprinkle them around the bed
• Sprinkle them around a lover
• Cast a circle for a love spell
Sprinkled on the sheets, any vigorous activity that heats up
thebedwillsimultaneouslycausetheeroticfragrancestoin-
tensify. Sweat encourages the powder to adhere to the skin.
Theadvantagesofediblepowdercannotbeoveremphas-
ized: avoid talc and replace with food quality powder.
Love Powder (1) Do It Yourself
Formula
Customize your own love powder.
1. Choose one or any combination of the following:
Chocolate powder
Cloves
Cinnamon
Cubeb
Dried ginger
Essential oil of cypress614/901
Grains of Paradise
Orrisroot
Peppermint
Rose petals
Vanilla sugar
2. Grind the ingredients into a fine powder.
3. Blend them with rice powder, cornstarch, potato
starch, or arrowroot powder, distributing the
botanical material evenly.
4. Use a sifter to help you achieve a smooth, even
consistency.
5. Testitonyourskintomakesurethatyouhavea
comfortabledilution:someofthepowderingredi-
ents (cinnamon, cloves) can irritate sensitive skin.
6. Place in a covered container and use.
Aphrodite Spells
Themostcelebratedlovespiritofall,aphrodisiacsarenamed
in her honor. The finest are believed to share in her essence.
Aphroditemostcommonlymanifestsaseitheramermaid
orasanimpossiblybeautifulwoman.Sheshinessobrightly
thatshedazzlestheeyes.SheistheQueenofWildBeastsand
theLadyofFlowers,andsheacceptsdevotionfrombothmen
and women. A friendly, sociable although temperamental
spirit,sheisusuallyaccompaniedbyahostoflesserspiritsas
wellashercompanionanimals.Shelikesaparty.Loveisher
sacrament. To say that you’re too busy for love or uninter-
estedinromanceistoofferhergraveinsult.Toacknowledge
theneedanddesireforsexandromanceistohonorherand615/901
acknowledgeherauthority:requestherassistancesothatyou,
too, may worship at her altar.
AphroditeisattheheightofherpowerduringtheSum-
merSolstice.HerplanetsarethesunandVenus.Herdayis
Friday.Callherwithmyrtle,myrrh,androses.Ancientwor-
shippers offered her triangle-shaped honey cakes. Aphrodite
isaversatilespiritandheraltarstakemanyforms.Thebot-
tomlineisthatthey,likethespiritthattheyhonor,mustbe
beautiful.Decoratewithseashellsandothermotifsfromthe
sea.
Aphrodite Spell (1) Apples of Love
Aphroditeisabountifulspirit;shehasnotonebutmanysac-
red creatures and a multitude of sacred botanicals. Apple
trees are among her favorites, however, and apples figure
prominently in Aphrodite’s magic spells.
1. PlacethreeyellowapplesonAphrodite’saltarand
request that Aphrodite bless them.
2. Ask her to charm the fruit so that whoever eats
these apples will fall madly in love with you.
3. Give an apple to the one you choose.
Thismaybeconsideredthemost“ethical”lovespellofall,as
the otherperson retains the choice to eat the apple or not.616/901
Aphrodite Spell (2) Enchanted
Charms
HaveAphroditeempoweryourlovecharmssothattheywill
becomeromantictalismanstodraw,maintain,andprotect
love.
1. Create an altar for Aphrodite.
2. Consecrateitwithofferingstohersuchasflowers,
fruit, perfume, or jewelry.
3. In addition, place upon the altar something that
you’dlikehertoempowerforyouasalovecharm.
Abeltorwaistbeadsaretraditionalbutanysmall
charm or piece of jewelry is effective.
4. Be very clear and explicit as to what belongs to
Aphrodite and will remain hers forever versus
what she’s empowering for you as a charm.
5. Letthecharmrestonthealtarovernight.Giveitto
your beloved as a gift or use it to draw new love.
Apollo Spell
Apolloisaspiritofomnivoroussexuality.Hisromanticde-
siresformenandwomenareequallystrong;whatseemsto
be the bottom line of attraction for him is beauty, intelli-
gence,andtalent,ratherthangender.Hisisacomplexmyth.
Classical Greek mythology paints him as the handsomest,
mosttalented,mostcleverspiritofall,yetthewomenhepur-
suesinevitablyrunfromhisembrace.Apollohadbetterluck
with male lovers, with whom he had happy, successful617/901
relationships. Request his assistance, especially with
someone who’s hard to get.
1. Carveanddressalargeyelloworgoldcandleand
dedicateittoApollo.Useanyofthelovedrawing
oils. Pow-Wow Power Oil, although it wasn’t
intendedforthispurpose,mayattractApollo’sat-
tention because it’s sosunny.
2. Roll the candle in powdered Saint John’s Wort.
3. Burn it and make your appeal.
Apollo’ssacredcreaturesincludecrowsandmice.Significant
or surprising appearances may signal your response.
Artemis Spell
Women seeking other women may request assistance from
Artemis and Athena.
Artemis’ happiest times are spent in the company of other
women. She has deep-seated doubts about men, although
she’spartialtotheveryfewspecialoneswhocomealong.If
you’vediscoveredoneofthoseuniquemen,Artemismayalso
be petitioned for assistance.
1. Petition Artemis at night.
2. Offer her cool spring water and white or silver
candles.Smallimagesofthewildanimalsthatshe
loves are appropriate offerings.
3. Tell her that if she will grant your wish you will
make a contribution toward the preservation of
wild life.618/901
Athena Spell
Athenaisacomplexspirit,tornbetweenherrootsinthean-
cientLibyanreligionoftheGreatMotherandherlaterfer-
vent embrace of conservative patriarchy. Appeal to her
earlier instincts:
1. Call Athena with a dish of olive oil dressed with
olive flower essence remedy and a glass of wine.
2. Decorate her altar with images of snakes and
gorgons.
3. Speak to her lucidly and articulately and tell her
what you need.
Spells to Make Her or Him
Love You
Inthesamemannerthatcertainmedicinesorhormonetreat-
mentsaffectmenandwomendifferently,sosomebotanicals
have different impacts upon the different genders. With the
following spell categories (Make Her Love You and Make
HimLoveYou),ingeneralthegenderofthetargetofthespell
iswhatissignificant.Thusthesearespellstoattractamanor
awoman. Thegender ofthespell-caster may ormay notbe
significantsounlesstoldotherwise,assumethatthesespells
are equal opportunity spells.619/901
Make Her Love You Spells
Aroma of Love Spell
Fumigateyourclothingwiththescentofaloeswood,cinna-
mon, and myrrh to attract women’s romantic attention.
Basil True Love Spell
Hand a woman a sprig of basil. Allegedly if she accepts it,
she’ll fall in love with you and remain faithful forever.
Grapefruit Spell Lure a Woman
Away from Another
1. Cut a grapefruit in half.
2. Write the woman’s name and her present lover’s
name on a piece of brown paper.
3. Write your own name over the lover’s name, so
that the original lover’s name is now illegible.
4. Stick this paper into the center of the grapefruit.
5. Put it inside a disposable pan or baking dish or
line a permanent pan with foil.
6. Sprinkle the grapefruit with salt, pepper, and
brown sugar.
7. Arrangefivegoldencandlesaroundthegrapefruit
in the dish and light them.620/901
It’snoaccidentthatHighJohntheConquerorrootiscalled
byaman’sname.Ithaspowerfulassociationswithmen’sma-
gic. Many women find success with it as a charm for luck,
money,andgeneralgoodfortune.Whenitcomestoloveand
sex, however, this charm works best for men.
High John, like lodestones, is divided by gender: there
aremaleandfemaleHighJohn’s.Shapedeterminesgender:
theroundonesarefemale;thephallic-lookingonesaremale.
Forlove,sex,andromanticdominationspells,obviouslythe
more phallic the High John the better.
HighJohnhasheterosexualproclivities:itdrawswomen
to men. Men seeking other men traditionally substitute
Sampson snake root.
High John Attraction Spell
To attract a specific woman:
1. Steep High John in a jar of olive oil for seven days.
2. Remove the root and bury it under the steps of
your target’s home.
Reserve the oil for use as dressing oil.
High John Love Drawing Spell
1. Obtainafewstrandsofhairfromtheheadofthe
one you desire.
2. Wrap them around a High John the Conqueror
root, making knots.621/901
3. Anointwithalovedrawingoilandplaceitinsidea
red drawstring bag.
4. Sleepwiththisunderyourpillow,andcarryitwith
you during waking hours.
5. Anoint with one drop of the love drawing oil daily.
High John Sexual Domination
Spell
In addition to stimulating sexual generosity, this spell also
allegedly produces a compliant nature.
1. Addafewdropsoftuberoseabsolutetoabottleof
Command and Compel Oil.
2. Use this oil to dress a High John the Conqueror
root.
3. Place the dressed root into a red charm bag and
sprinkleitwithpowderedconfectioner’ssugarand
cayenne pepper.
4. Keep this bag under the mattress on the side
where the woman usually sleeps.
5. Dresstherootonceaweekwiththeoiltoensure
cooperation. (And also to ensure that she hasn’t
yet discovered and removed the bag!)622/901
Isis Invocation: To Lure a Woman
From Another Man
This spell requests assistance from Isis. It invokes famous
lovers in the hope that you too will achieve their ecstasy.
1. AtmidnightonSaintJohn’sEve,pickahandfulof
vervain leaves, the plant that allegedly sprang
from Isis’ tears, when she lost her true love.
2. As you pick them, call on her:Isis, Great of Magic!
Make [Name] daughter of[Name] love me like I
love her.
Make her love me like you love Osiris!
Make her love me like Penelope loves Odysseus!
Make her love me like Ariadne loves Dionysus!
Make her love me like Aphrodite loves Adonis!
Make her love me like Juliet loves Romeo!
3. Fromthemomentyougrasptheleaves,untilyour
arrivalhome,keepupyourchantandpetition.Im-
provise, speak from your heart, invoke other lov-
ers, but don’t stop.
4. Carry the leaves home inside your shirt against
your skin.
5. Place the leaves in new green silk.
6. Leavethispacketinadry,well-ventilatedplacefor
21 days.
7. Thengrindtheleavesintoapowder.Keepthemin
amojobag.Whentheopportunitypresentsitself,
dust your hands with the powder. Touch the wo-
man’s hands and ideally her face.623/901
Sandalwood Seduction
Men are advised to wear sandalwood to elicit a positive
sexual response from women.
Three Hairs Spell
1. Steal three hairs from the woman, one at a time,
on three separate occasions, while the woman is
sleeping.Formaximumeffect,thehairshouldbe
taken from near the nape of the neck.
2. Braid the hairs.
3. Hold onto this braid for a little while, don’t rush
this spell.
4. Keep it in a charm bag worn or carried on the
body, to absorb your power and desire.
5. Whenyou’reready,pushitintoacrackofatreeso
thatitmaygrowwiththetreefromthenon.(Aro-
mantictreeisideal,suchasanapple,otherflower-
ing or fruit tree, hazel, ash, hawthorn, or elder.)
Make Him Love You Spells
Baked Goods Spell
1. Bake bread, a cake, or cookies for the one you love.
2. As you knead the dough, press it against your
private parts or squeeze it beneath your underarm.624/901
3. If you are baking multiple items simultaneously,
mark whatever is intended for your beloved, to
avoid confusion and trouble.
4. Feed it to him.
Follow Me Boy!
FollowMeBoy!isthenamegiventoatraditionalcondition
formula. It is considered one of the Commanding formulas
butisvirtuallyalwaysusedinromanticoreroticsituations.
Sweet flag creates the commanding effect, which is rein-
forcedfurtherifyouaddlicorice,howeverdamianaisapo-
tentaphrodisiac.Hemaybeforcedtofollowyoubuthe’llbe
happy to do it!
The basic formula consists of:
Dried sweet flag (calamus)
Dried catnip
Dried damiana
Optional: add licorice if you like the fragrance.
Foramorepotentseductiveoil,alsoaddes-
sential oils of bergamot, sweet orange, and
tuberose, plus essences of any red flowers.
1. Powder the dried ingredients together.
2. Add them to sweet almond oil, shaking to blend.
3. Finally add any essential oils.
Touse,dipacottonballintheoilandtuckitintoabraor
pocket.625/901
Shoe Spell
To turn a sexual relationship with a man into something
more:
1. Pick up his shoes as soon as he takes them off.
2. Place your own shoes inside his, your left inside
his left, your right inside his right.
3. Buckle or tie them together as securely as possible.
4. Leave them like this until morning.
Vetiver Attraction
The fragrance of vetiver allegedly attracts men, whether
wornbywomenorothermen.Wearitonthebodyorsoaka
cotton ball in the essential oil and tuck it into a pocket or bra.
Wrap a Ring Around You Spell
1. Createawreathorhoopfromvinesorlovedraw-
ingplants,knottingyourintentionsanddesiresin-
to the hoop.
2. Burn it.
3. Gather the ashes and sprinkle them around your
heart’s desire in a ring.626/901
New Love Initiation Spell
Magicallysignalyourreadinessforlovetotheuniverse.This
spell allegedly beckons true love near.
1. Pulverize splinters of acacia and aloes wood to-
gether with three hairs from your head.
2. Take the resulting blend to a crossroads on a
breezy day.
3. Letthepowderslipfrombetweenyourfingersas
you revolve in a circle, murmuring an invocation
of love.
New Lover Magnet Bath
Add cubebs and hibiscus blossoms to your bath. Reserve
some of the used bathwater and sprinkle it around your
home to signal your magical invitation to a new lover.
Old Love Spell
Aproverbsuggeststhatloveiswastedontheyoung.Orris-
root preserves the pleasures and passions of romance
throughoutone’slife.Createthispowderbygrindingorris-
rootandblendingwithricepowder.Dustonyourbodyand
the bed sheets as desired.627/901
Oils of Love
Other oils will be found in the Formulary, including Black
Cat, Cleopatra, Come to Me Lover!, and Queen of
Sheba.
Amor Oil
1. PlaceabalmofGileadbudandapieceofcoralin-
side a bottle.
2. Cover these with sweet almond and jojoba oils.
3. Add a few drops of either neroli or petitgrain es-
sential oil plus a drop of tangerine essential oil.
4. Addabitofgroundcinnamonoronedropofes-
sential oil of cinnamon leaf.
New Orleans-style Fast Luck Oil
Asfaraslovegoes,FastLuckOilisapick-upoil.Expectto
draw a surprise one-night stand or even a great weekend,
butnottruelong-lastinglingeringlove.Theingredientsare
cinnamon, vanilla, and Wintergreen, with a jojoba oil base.
Pansy Love Spell
Look for pansies with little faces that please you. Weave
themintochainsandhangtheminthebedroomtocapture
the love you desire.628/901
Red Witch Candle Spell
Candlesintheshapeofredwitchesareparticularlybenefi-
cial for love magic.
Theimageryisalwayspositive:theredwitchmayrep-
resentthepowerofthewitchasanallyorshecantranscend
theentireconceptofhumanwitches,torepresentprimordial
female power. The red witch is symbolic for the menstrual
blood that figures in so many love spells.
Red Witch candles are used to draw love:
1. Anoint her with love drawing oils.
2. Chant your invocation:
Red witch, red witch
Bring me my lover
3. Light the candle for a set period of time nightly.
Chooseanumberthathassignificanceforyou—six
minutes,nine,anhour.Whatiscrucialisthatthis
increment of time be maintained faithfully.
4. Burn nightly until consumed.
Thisspellmaybeusedforanunknownloverorforsomeone
whomyoualreadydesire.Ifyouknowtheperson’sidentity,
insert their name into the chant.
Red Witch Love Spell
1. Place a beautiful red apple beside a red witch
candle.
2. Burnthecandlewhilemurmuringincantationsof
love.629/901
3. Feed the apple to your heart’s desire.
Re-ignite Love Spell
“Nothing’s cold as ashes after the fire is gone…”
Allegedlyvervaincanre-ignitespentpassionsandpast
love.Createaninfusionbypouringboilingwateroverver-
vainleaves.Addtheinfusiontoyourbathandallowyourself
to air-dry when meeting your old love—although presum-
ably for maximum effectiveness one bathes together.
Right Person Love Spell
You don’t want just any love; you need the right one. This
spellisbeneficialforalong-termlovesearch.AddAttraction
OiltoyourbatheveryFridayuntilyou’vefoundtheloveyou
want.
Roses Spells
Rosesareametaphorforthehumanheart.Noflowerrepres-
entslovemorevividly.Perhapsnothingdoes.Rosesaresac-
redtothemostpowerfulspiritsoflove:Aphrodite,Juno,Isis,
Kybele,MaitresseEzili,andMariaPadilha.Oshunlovesyel-
low roses.
Cleopatra,thelivingembodimentofAphroditeandIsis,
seduced Mark Antony in a scented bedroom, packed
kneedeep with rose petals.630/901
Red Rose Powder
Red Rose Powder is used to heal lover’s quarrels.
1. Grindredrosepetalsandpeppermintleavesintoa
fine powder.
2. Sprinkle Red Rose Powder on your partner, on a
gift of a bouquet of flowers, or on the sheets.
Betteryet,addRedRosePowdertoricepowdertocreatea
body dusting powder. Apply it to your own body with a
powder puff so that no one can stay mad at you.
Rose Love Beads
The original love beads are crafted from rose petals.
1. Process rose petals in a food processor or grind
them with a mortar and pestle until they form a
paste.
2. Rollsmallamountsintotinybeadswithyourfin-
gers.Concentrateonyourdesireasyouroll,utter
a petition of love as you form each bead.
3. Letthebeadsdry,ideallyonascreenthatallows
air to circulate.
4. Whiletheyarestillslightlydamp,beforethebead
hascompletelydried,pierceeachbeadwithalarge
needle,sothatitmaybestrungonacord.Visual-
ize your heart pierced with love as you wield the
needle.631/901
5. Stringthebeadsonaredsilkcordandwearitor
hang it over your bed.
Red Rose Spell
1. Place a long-stemmed red rose between two red
taper candles dressed with a love oil.
2. Burn the candles.
3. Whenthecandleshaveburneddown,givetherose
to the one you want.
Seeking New Love Spells
Spells to initiate love emerge from different needs. Perhaps
youawaityoursoulmate,whoseidentityremainsunknown,
orperhapssoulmatesandtruelovearen’tanissue:you’djust
likeacompanion,anewloverorrelationship.Ormaybeyou
have your heart set on someone special, whose identity is
known to you. Now if only this person shared your desires…
Seeking New Love Spell
Aspelltofindnewlove,particularlyfollowingalongperiod
of solitude, loneliness, and bad luck:
1. Add a few strands of hair from your head plus
some thumbnail clippings to dried rose petals,
Grains of Paradise, and vervain.
2. Burn them over lit charcoal like incense.632/901
3. Stand over the rising smoke wearing outer gar-
mentsbutnounderpants.Inhalethesmoke’sfra-
grance as it wafts up toward you.
4. Still wearing no underpants, travel to a cemetery.
5. Walk through the cemetery in two directions,
formingtheshapeofacross,todestroyevilfrom
all directions.
6. Go home via a different route than the one by
which you arrived.
Seeking New Love: Grains of
Paradise
GrainsofParadiseallegedlyincitepassion,eroticthoughts,
andactions.Theyalsopossessacommandingelement.Ori-
ginallyapopularEastAfricanmagicalingredient,theyare
now renowned worldwide.
Usethemtodrawnewloveintoyourlife:addaninfu-
sionofGrainsofParadisetoyourbathwater;sprinklethe
used bath water together with some extra powder around
your home to signal your availability.
Seeking New Love Shoe Spell Violet
Leaf
Violetleavesresemblehearts.Placesomeinyourshoetoat-
tract new love and to guide you towards the right lover.633/901
Seeking Someone Special
Spells
Spells for when you know who you want.
Someone Special: Altar of Love
Spell
Thisisaspelltopersuadesomeonetoreturnyouraffections.
Threecandlesarerequired:onetorepresentyou,thesecond,
theobjectofyouraffections,andthelastcandle,thepoten-
tial state of romance. Use figure candles to represent the
people plus a large pillar or heart-shaped candle.
1. Arrange the two figure candles six inches apart.
2. Place the third at the apex of the triangle.
3. Dress the candles, petition, and light.
Someone Special: Heart Spell
1. Writethenameofthepersonyoudesireonparch-
ment paper seven times.
2. Drawaheartaroundthesenamesbywritingyour
ownnameinscript,withoutpickingupthepenor
pencil.Lengtheneachletterorwriteyournamere-
peatedly. The key is not to pick up the pen until
thesevennamesarecompletelyenclosedbyyour
own.634/901
3. Chant something like: “You are in my heart” or
“My heart encompasses you.”
4. Preserve this talisman of love in a safe place.
(Shouldyouchangeyourmind,ripupthepaper,
breaking the heart, and destroy it.)
Someone Special: Picture of Love
Cover a small photo of the one you love by wrapping it in
strandsofyourhair.Wrapthisupinredthread.Wrapthis
up in red velvet and bury the whole packet in Earth.
Someone Special: Pin Our Hearts
Together
1. Cut two hearts from red wax.
2. Scratch yourname onone, yourbeloved’s onthe
other.
3. Pinthemtogetherwiththreepinsandcarrynear
your heart.
Talismans of Love
Fairytalesarefullofmagicpowerobjectsthatdrawloveand
good fortune toward their bearers. What the stories some-
times neglect to mention is that you can craft your own.635/901
Talisman of Love: Coral Earrings
InancientRome,coralearringswerebelievedtobeckonmen
and draw love. Wear a pair at strategic opportunities.
Talisman of Love: Red Ribbon Spell
Todiscoverabitofredribbon,string,wool,orpieceoffab-
ricindicatesluckinloveandachangeinromanticfortunes.
Pick it up and make a wish. (If you can’t think of one, re-
questingluckandhappinessinloveismorethanappropri-
ate.) Carry the ribbon as an amulet.
Talisman of Love: Rose Quartz
Rosequartzallegedlydrawsloverstowardyou.Wearitas
jewelry or carry it with you.
Shoulditdrawtoomany,toofastinanoverwhelming
manner, add an amethyst for a stabilizing effect.
Binding Spells
It’s crucial to distinguish between banishing and binding
spells, a not uncommon source of confusion.636/901
• Banishingspellsrepelsomethingorsomeone,re-
moving it from your presence, perhaps
permanently
• Binding spells bind another person to you
through eternity and perhaps beyond
Occasionally the term “binding” is meant to indicate that
someone has been incapacitated (“bound”) and is no longer
able to harm you. However it isnotused in that context in this
book. Think “ties that bind” rather than “bound and gagged.”
There are two types of love binding spells:
• Mutual binding spells that couples cast together
topreserve,enhance,andprotectlove.Inasense
thesearemagicalsoulweddings,affirmationsof
true love. These bindings are entered into con-
sciously and with free will and desire
• Binding spells that one party casts on the other,
frequently without their knowledge. These bind-
ingsareoftendesperateattemptstosalvageare-
lationshiporpreventanotherfromleaving.Ina
sense, these spells assert romantic ownership
overanotherparty.Assuch,theycanbemalevol-
ent spells, which rarely work out happily for
either party
Howdoyouknowifabindingspellhasbeencastoveryou?If
everyefforttoleavearelationshipfails,there’sreasonatleast
for suspicion. Never fear; as with hexes, antidotes exist.
There is a key difference between menstrual blood po-
tionsandclassicalbindingspells:asuccessfulmenstrualpo-
tion causes the other person to love you forever. You,
however, remain a free agent. Binding spells bind you as
surely as they bind the other party. Use them judiciously.637/901
Wait!Beforethebindingspellsbeginbelow,howdoyou
knowyouhavetherightperson?Areyoubindingyourselfto
trueloveortolivingdisaster?Thesetwospellswillhelpyou
determine the answer.
For Women
Rueattractslovebutalsoeliminateswomen’sromanticillu-
sions.Itisnotsafeforusebypregnantwomenorthoseact-
ivelyattemptingtobecomepregnant.(Inwhichcase,other
issues and factors may be at hand.)
Simultaneouslyburnrue,inhalingthefragrance,while
drinkingruetea.Bathinginaninfusionofrue,atthesame
time, will maximize the potential of this spell.
For Men
An amethyst carried as a talisman attracts women. It spe-
cifically draws honorable women.
Mutual Binding Spells: True
Love Spells
Thesebindingspellsareenteredintofreelyandwithmutual
intent. They produce a magical wedding of souls and affirm
commitmenttooneanother.Attheirbest,thesearethemost
romantic spells of all.638/901
Knot Binding Spell for Two: A
Cooperative Effort
Thisbindingspellensuresthatacoupleremainstogether.It
willalsocountereffortstosunderyourlove,thusservingas
a simultaneous protection spell.
1. One partner takes a handkerchief or square of
cloth and ties two knots in it.
2. The other partner ties two more knots.
3. Both parties together now take these four knots
andtiethemtogethertomakeonebig,tightknot:
both parties pull so that the knot is as tight as
possible.
4. Keepthecharminasafeplace.Dressitwithalove
oil periodically.
5. Ifatsomepointyoudowishtoseparate,untieor
break the knot.
Lodestone Binding
Themostsuccessfulbindingspellsstemfrommutualdesire
and intent.
1. Lodestone Oil is required as well as some
privacy.
2. Create Magnetic Sand Dusting Powder: combine
rice powder with magnetic sand. You’ll need a
powderpufforafeatherforapplication.(Ashaker639/901
bottle will work but doesn’t quite have the same
effect.)
3. Massage the Lodestone Oil onto one partner’s
body.
4. TheotherpartnershouldapplytheMagneticSand
Body Powder.
5. Make love.
6. The binding spell is complete; repeat as desired.
Pomegranate Binding
“How do I love thee?” Let me count the seeds…
To effect a binding:
1. Break open pomegranates; two should be
sufficient:
2. One partner eats 220 seeds, the other eats 284.
3. Count them and eat them together.
To Break a Binding Spell
You’vediscoveredthatsomeonehasboundyouwithoutyour
knowledgeorpermissionandagainstyourdesires.Allisnot
lost. Binding chains can be broken.
Antidote Spell
1. Powdered sassafras bark is required. Take a bit
from your own tree and grind with a mortar and640/901
pestle or purchase from an herbal supplier.
GroundsassafrasisalsoastapleofCajuncuisine,
sold under the name filé powder—think filé
gumbo. It may be purchased under that name
from spice companies.
2. Add the ground powder to a blend of castor and
jojobaoils.(Donotuseessentialoilofsassafras;it
is highly toxic.)
3. Onsevensquaresofpaper,writethefollowingus-
ingDragon’s Blood Ink:
Ibreakyourpower;Idestroyyourforce[Name],
child of [Name]
You have no control over me [Name], child of
[Name]
You have no power over me [Name], child of
[Name]
I am free from your binding spell.
4. Every morning for seven consecutive mornings,
soak one paper in the oil.
5. Tear it into either three or five pieces. Add the
pieces to frankincense and myrrh resin and burn
them.
6. Everyday,asyoucompletethisspell,thepowerof
theotherpersonoveryoudiminishes.Itshouldbe
completely broken by the spell’s conclusion.641/901
Break-Up and
Romantic
Discouragement Spells
Sometimes the romantic issue at hand isn’t attracting or
maintaining love, rather it’s terminating a relationship.
Break-Up Spellsinclude:
• Spells to terminate an established, existing
relationship
• Spells to discourage unwanted attention from
strangersandalsofromthosewhoimagineare-
lationship exists where it does not. If that atten-
tionisextremelypersistentandaggressive,check
out Banishing Spells for those that discourage
stalkers
Anti-Love Potion
Turnipsareallegedlytheanti-lovefood.Setadishofturnips
before an unwanted suitor to send them on their way.642/901
Break-Up Powder
Sometimes a significant relationship may have ended for
you.Nowyou’rewaitingfortheotherpersontocometothe
same understanding.
1. Grindandpowderthefollowingdriedbotanicals:
lemongrass, mullein, patchouli, valerian, and
vetiver.
2. Sprinkle the powder in the pockets and shoes of
the one whom you’d like to send packing.
Warning: this is not a secret spell. The ingredients are de-
rived from Van Van and (botanical) Graveyard Dust.
The powder will have a strong aroma. Questions will be
asked.
Post Break-up Cleansing
Accordingtogeneralmetaphysicalwisdom,anysexualrela-
tionship creates vestigial ties that bind, the more intense,
passionate, and lengthy the relationship, the more intense,
passionate, and lingering the bonds. This cleansing spell is
beneficialwheneveryouwishtoseveranderasethosebonds,
whether from a long-term relationship or a one-night stand.
Gently rub a whole raw egg against your naked body,
from head to toe and outwards from shoulders to fingers,
withextraemphasisplacedonthegenitals.Whencomplete,
break the raw egg into the toilet and flush it away.643/901
Relationship End Powder
This powder is more subtle than Break-Up Powder.
Grind the following botanicals into fine powder: cam-
phor,pennyroyal,andslipperyelm.Sprinkleintotheshoes
and pockets of the one who should depart.
Warning:Pregnantwomenorthoseactivelyat-
tempting to become pregnant should not handle
pennyroyal.
Heartbreak and
Disappointment Spells:
Pre-Break Up
Doyousenseloveslippingaway?Thesespellsattempttore-
store and revive lost or fading love. The relationship isn’t
completely over; your partner hasn’t left…yet. (Under these
circumstances,considerSummoningSpellstohelpbringthe
other party back.)
Baby Please Don’t Go Spell
There’snoneedforaSummoningSpell.Heorshehasn’tleft
yet. You, however, foresee with fear and dismay that the
date of departure seems imminent. This variation of a644/901
floorwash attempts to forestall that departure, revive love
and happiness, and make that Summoning Spell you’ve
alreadypickedoutcompletelyunnecessary.Thisisaversion
of a classic condition formula known as Stay With Me.
1. Pour boiling water over the following ingredients
tocreateastronginfusion:BloodrootCardamom
Coriander Cumin Forget-me-not Rosemary
2. Strain out the botanical material, and add the li-
quid to a bucket of water together with some
vinegar.
3. Use it to cleanse your home, concentrating on
thresholds to the outside and the bedroom.
4. Formaximumpower,castthespellinconjunction
withmanyrepetitionsofthesacredsoundsofLor-
raine Ellison’s recording, “Stay With Me Baby.”
Sing along or just listen as inspired.
Love Me Again Spell
Itmatterslittlethatyourpartnerhasn’tleft;loveseemstobe
gone.
Burndragon’sbloodwhilechantingpetitionsforloveto
berestoredandresurrected.Keepchantingcontinuouslyfor
as long as the dragon’s blood burns.645/901
Stick With Me Spell
“Pega-pega”istheSpanishnameforthebotanicalDesmodi-
um obtusum. Pega-pega literally means “stick-stick” or
“attach-attach.”
• Addpega-pegatoconjurebagstomenddamaged
relationships and stay together
• Sew it into the other person’s clothing
Heartbreak And
Disappointment Spells:
Post-Break Up
Sometimesit’snotabouttheotherperson;it’saboutrepairing
and soothing your own broken heart.
Apple Romantic Cleansing Spell
Acleansingspellforwhenabadloveaffairhasleftyoufeel-
ing tainted, humiliated, or defiled.
• Diceanappleanddousethepieceswithhoneyand
cayenne pepper.
• Let it sit until it rots.
• Flush the pieces down the toilet.646/901
• Affirm that you will learn to love again but more
wisely this time.
Broken Heart Bath
• Addwhiterosepetals,honeysuckleblossoms,and
rose attar to a bath filled with water. Substitute
hydrosols for the fresh flowers if necessary.
• Place a rose quartz large enough not to go down
the drain in the bath too.
• Soak in the scented bath.
• Followingthebath,carrytherosequartzwithyou.
Sleep with it under your pillow until you don’t
need it anymore.
Heartsease Spell
Heartseasearewildpansies.Theirnamerevealstheirsecret
powertosootheheartache.Floatfreshblossomsinyourbath
or add the flower essence remedy.
Honeysucklediscouragesunhealthynostalgiaandattachment
tothepast,enablingyoutomoveforwardinawhole,healthy
manner.Thesespellsrequiretraditionalfragranthoneysuckle
rather than Cape honeysuckle, which is beautiful but lacks
scent.647/901
Oregano Spell
The scent of oregano allegedly helps you forget old lovers.
Ordering a pizza may be of some use once in a while,
howeverburningthedriedherbasincenseorheatingafew
dropsoftheessentialoilinanaromaburneraremuchmore
effective.
Yarrow Heartsease Bath
Among yarrow’s meanings in the Language of Flowers is
“cure for heartache.” Add yarrow hydrosol to your bath
water.
Love Potions
At its most basic, the exact nature ofthe simple love potion
beverage is less crucial than your magic power with which
you’ve charged it.
1. Pour out the potion.
2. Whisperandmurmuryourdesiresandintentions
over the liquid in the glass.
3. Serve it to your lover.648/901
Caraway Potion
Notthealcoholicbeverageorherbalteatype?Nottoworry.
Bake caraway seeds into cakes, breads, and cookies and
serve to the one you desire to stimulate mutual emotions.
Chestnut Love Fix
Allegedly hand-feeding someone chestnuts stimulates them
to love you.
Chocolate Potion
FollowingtheconquestofMexico,chocolatewasexportedto
Europe. In Aztec Mexico, chocolate was served as a ritual
drink, with chili peppers rather than sugar. In Europe,
chocolate’s aphrodisiac properties were exploited instead.
The Inquisition was not pleased: some Spanish women got
into trouble for allegedly using hot chocolate to cast love
spells. Interestingly, chocolate is now known to contain
phenylethylamine,astimulantsimilartothosereleaseddur-
ingsex.Forwhatit’sworth,Casanova’srecommendedpre-
sex menu was a cup of chocolate and a plate of oysters.
Serve hot chocolate to the one you love and see if it
works.Forextraenhancement,topwithpowderedaphrodis-
iac spices, like powdered cinnamon or cardamom.649/901
Dreams of Delight Love
Potions
The basic formula includes cardamom, cinnamon, coriander
seeds,andlicoriceroot.Twodifferenttechniquesprovidedif-
ferent effects.
Dreams of Delight Potion Fragrant
ThearomaofsimmeringDreamsofDelightmaybesoinvit-
ingthatdrinkingmaynotbenecessary.Merelyinhalingthe
fragrancewithitssubliminalmessageofloveandseduction
may be sufficient for the purpose.
1. Fill a pot with wine.
2. Add the dried botanicals and warm to a simmer.
3. Strainthesolidsoutandservethewarmpotionto
the one you love.
Elderberry Potion
Fairy tales tell of fairies so infatuated with mortal lovers
that they seduce them and carry them away to Fairyland,
wherenodoubtthispotionisserved.Gatherelderberrieson
Midsummer’sEve,whisperingyourdesiresoverthem.Make
themintoelderberrywine,orjuststeeptheberriesinwine
and serve.650/901
Flowers of Love Potion
Add a few drops of hibiscus flower essence remedy to jas-
mine tea and serve to the one you love.
Lavender Potion
Lavender is one of those interesting substances that may
serve as an aphrodisiac—or create the opposite effect. The
only way to find out how someone will react is to serve it.
Addfreshlavendertoabottleofwhitewine.Allowitto
steep several hours or overnight, then strain and serve.
Love Potion #2
A potion for two intended to enhance, stimulate, and pre-
serve true love.
1. Pour a bottle of red wine into a pot or cauldron.
2. Addthefollowingbotanicals(adjustquantitiesto
suit your taste or that of your intended): car-
damom pods, cinnamon sticks, and clove buds.
3. Allow to simmer gently for an hour, then strain.
4. Pourthewineintoglassesandaddonedropofred
hibiscus flower essence per glass.651/901
Love Potion #9
Todayanyspiritualsupplierworthitssaltsellssomesortof
love-drawingoilcalledLovePotion#9but,asanyonewho’s
everactuallylistenedtothesongknows,theoriginalwasa
drink.TheearliestLovePotions#9seemtohavebeeninfu-
sionsofherbs,i.e.,herbalteasortisanes,relyingonaphro-
disiacs rather than alcohol to deliver the passion.
1. Choose nine love herbs. Consider these: Damiana
Ginger
Grains of Paradise
Hibiscus
Lovage
Melissa (lemon balm)
Peppermint
Red clover
Rose petals
(Otheroptionsmightincludeadder’stongue,car-
damom pods, catnip, cubeb, lavender, red rasp-
berry leaves, or rose hips.)
2. Makeastronginfusionofalltheherbs,strain,and
serve.
Love Potion #9: Another Version
Lovage,aplantwhoseassociationswithromanceareindic-
ated by its name, is also known as “nine-stem.” Some con-
siderthatlovageteaisthetrueLovePotion#9.Experiment
and see which is most effective.652/901
1. Blendallpartsoftheplant:flowers,stem,leaves,
and roots.
2. Grindthemintopowder(don’tmakeittoofineas
it becomes difficult to strain the botanical out of
the liquid).
3. Pour boiling water over the ground lovage.
4. Strain and serve.
Papaya Potion
Shareapapaya.Thisnotonlyinduceseroticfeelingsbutal-
legedly stimulates true love.
Tea of Love
Simple ordinary black tea allegedly induces lust and erotic
inclinations. After all, tea does derive from the beautiful
camelliafamily.Drinkitbyitselforuseitasabaseformore
complex potions.
Brew black tea from leaves, incorporating fresh mint,
rose petals, and/or jasmine blossoms for added enhance-
ment. Add one drop of essential oil of bergamot before
serving and murmur your desires into the steaming liquid.
The simplest potion of all is wine. It invokes the blessing of
Dionysus,PatronofIntoxicationandtheonlyOlympianspirit
happilywedtohissoulmate.Winealsoinvokestheprecision
requiredbymagic:justtherightquantitykindlespassionand
ability. Too much and erotic power is removed, replaced by
sleep, obnoxiousness, erectile dysfunction, and general
unpleasantness.653/901
Wine Potion (1) Amber and
Essence
1. Steep amber in red wine.
2. Remove the amber before serving.
3. Add wild rose (Bach Flower) and hibiscus flower
essence remedies (FES, Pegasus, South African
Flower) just before serving.
Wine Love Potion (2) Aphrodisiac
1. Steepthefollowingingredientsinwine:Cinnamon
Cloves Coriander seeds Grated lemon zest
2. Addhibiscusflowerremedy(FES,Pegasus,South
AfricanFlower)atthelastmoment,twodropsper
glass.
Sex, Seduction, and
Aphrodisiacs
These are very specific spells: a romantic or true love com-
ponent may also exist but that’s not the main focus of the
spell. Just like regular love spells, this category is vast, with
spellstosuiteverytasteanddesire.AhighpercentageofSex
and Seduction Spells, especially the more ancient ones, are
designedtoenablementomagicallyseducewomen.Thismay654/901
bebecauseformillenniawomen’sspellswentunrecordedorit
may reflect historical social sexual dynamics.
During the European witch-craze, the fear of witch-
caused impotence reached states of hysteria. In other cul-
tures, other concerns were more prominent. The fear-indu-
cingmagicalfigureofTheArabianNightsorJewishfairytales
isn’tthatnotoriousfemalewitch,it’stheevilmalesorcererin-
tent on seducing young virgins and devout, faithful wives
alike with irresistible mystical charms, amulets, and spells.
For happiest results, cast these spells cooperatively.
Basic Aphrodisiac
Ingredients
Aphrodisiacs tend to be foods or fragrances. Because they
evokeverypersonal,uniqueresponses,experimentationisre-
quired to discover which aphrodisiacs work for you or your
lover.Incorporateanyoneorcombinationofthefollowingin-
to your very personal spells:
Caviar
Champagne
Chocolate
Coriander
Fruits: apricots, peaches, cherries, grapes, figs,
pomegranates
Garlic
Hibiscus tea
Honey
Hot peppers
Mint655/901
Onions
Radishes
Saffron
Shellfish especially, but all fish in general
Spices: cardamom, cinnamon, cloves
Sushi
Vanilla
Cyclamen Spell
In the Language of Flowers, cyclamen represents
voluptuousness.
Soaktherootinsweetalmondoilforthreedays.Strain
andreservetheoiltoserveasadressingoilforcharmsand
candles.Cyclamenflowerremedy(Pegasus)mayhaveaph-
rodisiac properties too. Experiment.
Diamond Spells
Diamond refers to both a gemstone and a shape. In the
metaphysicallanguageofgeometry,thediamondshapemay
stand in for the human eye or for the vagina. Is this why
Western marriages are typically initiated with diamond
rings?Emeraldsarethegemstonesthatattractandstabilize
loveandfidelity.Sowhyarediamondssuchpopularengage-
ment rings?
Diamonds,whethercarriedorworn,promoteself-con-
fidenceinsexualmatters.Theyrelieverootcausesofsexual
dysfunction.Theyareacleansing,releasing,purifyingstone656/901
inmattersofsexuality.Thesearespellsthatwill,nodoubt,
please the target:
• Tostimulatesomeonetobemoresexuallyrecept-
ivetowardyou,bestowthegiftofadiamond,ma-
gically charged with your own desires
• Tohealyourownsexualinhibitionsanddysfunc-
tion, don’t wait for someone else to bestow the
gift. Provide your own diamond: charge it with
your desires, bathe it in spring water enhanced
with hibiscus flower essence remedy (FES), and
wear it
Dress for Seduction Spell
Whatdoesthegoddessofloveweartocastaseductionspell?
Amagiccloakwithnothingunderneath?Onceuponatime,
like Aphrodite or Ishtar, she wore a magic girdle but that
magical garment seems to have lost some power over the
ages.Anotheritemofclothinghowever,onceassociatedwith
witchcraft, retains its magic powers of seduction.
Wearacrimsongarterbelttoenhanceyourpowersof
seduction,createanauraofirresistibility(itworkswithout
anyoneseeingit,unlessyouwantthemto),andtodiscover
wells of primal female power.657/901
Erotic Incense
Grindandpowdergingerlilies,jasmine,myrrh,andtuber-
ose.(Essentialoilsmayalsobewarmedinanaromaburn-
er.) Waft the fragrance where desired.
Flowers of Desire Oil
Blendessentialoilsofjasmine,tuberose,lavender,andylang
ylangtorenderyourselfirresistibleandtoinspirepassion-
ate feelings.
Fruits of Love Spell
Eve seduced Adam with an apple. Or did she? As apples
aren’tnativetothatpartofEarth,there’sbeenmuchdebate
astotheactualidentityoftheforbiddenfruit.Otherpossibil-
itiesincludeapricots,pomegranates,quince,andfigs(hence
the fig leaf). A simple display of fruits allegedly magically
tempts even someone determined not to be seduced.
1. Find the most beautiful examples of the above
fruitsyoucanandplacetheminanequallyattract-
ive bowl.
2. Offerthemtothetargetofyourspell.Ifheorshe
eats the fruit, they will be yours.
3. Iftheydecline,merelyleavethebowlcloseathand
and see what happens.658/901
Lavender Spells
Lavenderisanunusualplant;somefindittohaveaphrodisiac
propertieswhileothersfindittobetheopposite.Testitsef-
fects on lovers.
Aphrodisiac Lavender Honey
1. Warm one cup of honey in a bain-marie.
2. Add approximately one quarter cup of fresh or
dried lavender blossoms.
3. Whenthehoneybeginstobubble,removeitfrom
the heat. (Don’t let it scorch!)
4. Let it sit for thirty minutes, then strain out the
lavender.
5. Use the honey while warm.
Lavender Irresistibility Spell
Pinfreshlavendertoyourunderwear;allegedlythisrenders
you sexually irresistible. Alternatively, add essential oil of
lavender to final rinse water when washing your under-
wear; this may be as effective and will certainly be more
comfortable.659/901
Magic Mirror Sex Spell
1. Purchaseasmallhandmirror.Manymodernmir-
rorsaredouble-sided;thisisanoldspell.Amirror
with some sort of a back to it is required.
2. Pay whatever is the asking price; don’t haggle.
3. Remove at least some of the back of the mirror
andwriteyourbeloved’snamethreetimesinthat
space. That’s the easy part.
4. Now you need to find a pair of copulating dogs.
Don’t disturb them; just hold the mirror so that
theirimageisreflectedwithinit.Don’tlookinside
ityourselforallowanyonebuttheobjectofyour
desire to gaze within.
5. Somehowyoumustinducehimorhertolookinto
the mirror.
6. Havingaccomplishedthis,hidethemirrorfornine
daysinaspotwhereyourbelovedisguaranteedto
pass by frequently.
7. Whentheninedaysareover,carrythemirroron
your person.
8. Allegedlythiswillnowcausetheobjectofyourde-
sire to become sexually aroused whenever she or
he is in your presence.
New Orleans Parfum d’Amour
1. Blendandgentlywarmthefollowingingredients:
Florida Water Rose water or hydrosol Cinnamon
hydrosol
2. Dissolve honey in the liquid, stirring to distribute.660/901
3. Allow it to cool.
4. Place in a bottle and wear the fragrance.
Peppermint Spells
Persephonewasn’tHades’onlylove.Histrueloveapparently
was the nymph Mentha. This relationship pre-dated his ab-
duction of Persephone and continued after their marriage.
When Demeter discovered that not only had Hades kid-
nappedandrapedherdaughter,hewasalsocheatingonher,
shewasoutragedandinaclassicexampleofblamingitonthe
woman,transformedMenthaintothelowlypeppermintplant.
Mentha had the last laugh: Hades was rendered unable to
performsexuallywithoutmint.(Ofcourse,thefactthatpep-
permintwasonceusedasacontraceptivemightalsohavein-
fluencedtheLordoftheDead.)Tothisdaymintisconsidered
among the most potent aphrodisiacs.
Queen of the Night Spell
Night-blooming jasmine’s nicknames “Queen of the Night”
and“MoonlightoftheGrove”indicateitspower.Wearfresh
blossoms after dark to attract a new lover, romantically
hypnotize oneyoualreadyhave,andtotransform yourself
into a nocturnal queen.661/901
Road of Love
Blend hibiscus and rose petals. (Grind, powder, or leave
wholeasyouchoose.)Usetheseflowerstosprinkleapathto
thebedroomorwhereveryouchoose.Youmaycreatealav-
ish carpet or be extremely discreet, as long as the path is
unbroken.
Seduction Oils
Arabian Nights Perfume
ThecompilationofstoriesknownasTheThousandandOne
Nights orTheArabian Nights isfilled withdetails ofmagic
spells and formulas for seduction. Because stories that fall
underthebroadcategoryoffairytalesarenowrelegatedto
children,theeroticmaterialcontainedinTheArabianNights
istypicallyexcised.Addessentialoilsofaloes,ambrette,jas-
mine,liquidambar,myrrh,androsetoyourbathinprepara-
tion for nights of love.
Cleopatra Oil Spell
PlacefivedropsofCleopatraOilineachcornerofthebed
andanotherfiveintheverycenterforenhancederoticenjoy-
ment and powers of seduction.662/901
Jezebel Oil,likethequeeninwhosehonorit’snamed,isa
complex,multifacetedoil.Mainlyusedinmoney,love,andse-
ductionspells(andespeciallythosespellsthatbridgeallthree
concerns),thekeytoJezebelOilisthatitisusedforgetting
whatyouwant,inthefaceofallodds.Jezebelroot,acousinof
orrisroot, possesses both seductive and commanding
properties.
Jezebel Seduction Spell
Thespellmaybeusedtoinitiatearelationshiportoholdan
alreadyexistingloverspellbound.IntensifystandardJezebel
Oil by adding cinnamon, damiana, jasmine, and/or rose
petals.Dresspurpletapercandleswiththisoilandburnitin
your intended’s presence.
Oil Spell (1) Jasmine
Allegedly this oil arouses desire and ability and reduces
resistance.
1. Blend a few drops of jasmine attar into sweet al-
mond oil.
2. Use it to massage the one you love.
Powder Spell (1) Better Sex
Grindcubebpeppersintopowderandsprinkleitaroundthe
bed to magically inspire better sex.663/901
Powder Spell (2) Irresistible Touch
Powderorrisrootandmixwithcinnamonpowder.Rubjust
a little bit between your hands and touch the person you
desire.
Powder Spell (3) Triple X Powder
Grind Grains of Paradise, damiana, and cubeb peppers to-
gether.Sprinklethispowderaroundyourbedtoenhanceall
activities within it.
Sex Sheet Spell
1. Tossasheetovercopulatingdogsandthengetit
back. Don’t wash that sheet!
2. Findanexcusetowrapthesheetaroundtheone
you desire. This will allegedly arouse amorous
feelings.
Sweet-talking Seduction Spell
Forsweet,persuasivespeech,chewabitofcinnamonjustbe-
fore speaking.
Peppermint (real peppermint leaves, not breath mints)
may work, too.664/901
Thyme for Irresistibility
According to legend, thyme derives from Helen of Troy’s
tears, and thus shares her essence. Bathe in an infusion of
freshherbstoradiatethepowerofalovemagnet.Usecare-
fully: remember Helen was kidnapped twice!
Vanilla Seduction Spell
Cast this spell to attract or seduce a lover. Add genuine
vanillaextracttoyourbath.Allowyourselftoair-dry,then
dust with rice powder blended with a little ground
cinnamon.
Virility: Enhancing,
Maintaining, Reviving,
and Repairing
Inadditiontogeneralaphrodisiacs,thereisaspecialcategory
of spells designed to enhance, strengthen, and remedy male
sexualperformance.Malesexualperformancespellsfallinto
two categories:
• Spells to magically counteract and remedy
impotence665/901
• Spells to enhance sexual performance, so as to
transform a regular guy into a magically em-
powered lover
Spells to Heal and Remedy
Impotence
Impotence Diagnosis: The Hand of
Ishtar
According to ancient Mesopotamian belief, all-seeing, all-
knowingspiritspunishahostofinfractions,someofwhich
youmaynotevenhaverealizedyouhadcommitteduntilyou
received the punishment. Mesopotamian deities typically
communicate their displeasure by inflicting disease. Each
possessesitsownspecificillness.Thusyouwillknowbythe
disease, whose displeasure you have evoked. Ishtar, Divine
SpiritofLove,Life,andSexualDelights,punishesviasexual
dysfunction. If impotence is a result of her anger, then the
only way it can be resolved is through rituals to evoke her
forgiveness.
However, a problem of ambiguity exists: impotence
mayalsobetheresultofmalevolentbewitchmentcastbyan-
otherperson,orofamangledFidelitySpellcastbyyourwife
to stop you playing around on the side. (The notion of a
purely physical cause may or may not have existed.)
The root cause of impotence affects the nature of its
cure.Thisdiagnosticspellseekstodeterminewhetherlackof
sexualabilitystemsfromhumanhandsorfromtheHandof666/901
Ishtar.Aswithmanyhealingrituals,someoneelseperforms
the spell for the patient.
1. Form dough from emmer wheat and potter’s clay.
2. Use it to create male and female figures.
3. Place one on top of the other, however you’re
inspired.
4. Place them near the afflicted man’s head.
5. Reciteanincantationseventimes,blessingIshtar
and requesting that the needed information be
clearly revealed.
6. Removethesefiguresandplacetheminthevicin-
ityofapig.Ifthepigapproachesthefigures,this
confirmsthatIshtarisresponsiblefortheailment.
Acuremaybemadethroughofferingsandrituals
of appeasement. If however the pig does not ap-
proachthefigures,iftheydonotattractitsatten-
tion,themanhasbeenbewitchedbyaperson.In
order to undo the spell, he must find the charm
and undo it or take other magical measures.
I’velefttheancientspell’soriginalinstructionsaspermater-
ials,ontheoffchancethatemmerhassomemagicalqualities
distinct from other wheat and that this ingredient may be
possible for sometofind. However, feel free tosubstitute a
more convenient wheat if needs be.
Impotence Remedy (1) Dandelion
EarlyAmericancolonistsrecommenddandelionstocounter-
actimpotencebasedonmagicalandfolk-healingtraditions.
Interestinglydandelionleaveshavesincebeendiscoveredto667/901
containextremelyhighquantitiesofVitaminA,essentialfor
production of male and female sex hormones.
Aglassofdandelionwineservesasarestorativepotion.
Alternativelyadddandelionleavestosalad.Beforeconsum-
ing, murmur your desires over the food and visualize suc-
cessful accomplishment of the spell.
Impotence Remedy (2) Dragon’s
Blood Spell
Placeachunkofdragon’sbloodinaredbagandkeepitun-
der the mattress, to reinvigorate male sexual prowess.
Iron Spell Iron Key
1. Obtain seven keys, each from a different house,
each from a different town.
2. Heatthemuntilred-hotonananvil.(Acast-iron
pan will substitute.)
3. Blendwaterfromsevendifferentsources:theori-
ginalMoroccanformularequestswaterfromseven
different wells, in itself an adaptation of the
ancientpan-Semiticmiraculouswaterfromseven
springs.Ifeitheroptionisapossibility,followthe
original directions. Otherwise, seven types of
bottled spring water, each deriving from a differ-
ent source, is a realistic modern update.
4. Pourthisblendedwateroverthered-hotkeys.The
patient is then exposed to the steam. (Be careful668/901
not to scald yourself; the goal is to improve the
situation, not worsen it.)
5. Catch the water as it comes off the anvil or pan.
6. When it cools off, use it to bathe the afflicted parts.
Strong as an Oak Spell
Oaks are traditionally associated with primal male power.
Thisspellmaybeusedtoremedyimpotenceorjustenhance
sexual capacity.
1. Look for an older, strong, powerful-looking oak.
2. Talk to the tree: whisper your situation to it, de-
scribing your needs and desires. Request
assistance.
3. Look down: if the tree is sympathetic, you’ll find
twigs or acorns on the ground.
4. Actuallyseeingthetwigoracornfall—orevenbe-
ing hit on the head by one—is a profound assur-
ance of assistance.
5. Leave a gift and libation for the tree; gather up
your acorn or twig and carry it with you.
Super Sexual Ability Spells
AstheMarvellettessang,“Mybabymustbeamagicianbe-
causehe’ssuregotthemagictouch!”Thesespellsmaybenefit
someonesufferingfromerectiledysfunction,itdoesn’thurtto
try; however their real goal is to transform regular sex into
nights (and days!) of unflagging ecstasy.669/901
MaleSuperSexualAbilitySpellstendtotaketheformof
potions orvirility charms. Inmany cases themagic symbol-
isminherentinthesespellsevokesfemalesexualsymbolism
in order to enhance male sexual ability (almonds, honey,
clams, and more).
All Night Long Oil
Addessentialoilofjasmine,ideallyjasminesambac,tosweet
almondoil.Usethisoiltodresscandlesorthebody,toma-
gically fulfill the promise inherent in its name.
Date Super Sex Spell
Makeadatewithsomedates:carrycleansed,drieddatepits
in a conjure bag, for enhanced sexual ability.
Johnny-Jump-Up Sex Power Spell
CarrydriedJohnny-Jump-Upblossomsinaconjurebagto
enhance male sexual potency.
Sexual Prowess Potion Chickpeas
To enhance male sexual prowess:
1. Soak chickpeas (garbanzo beans) in water. They
will swell.670/901
2. Whentheyarecompletelysoftandswollen,strain
out the chickpeas and drink the water. This al-
legedlymakesamansovirilehecandeflower72
virgincowsin one night.
Sexual Prowess Powder Breakfast
of Champions
Beforebreakfastonthreeconsecutivemornings,eatshelled
almonds pounded with cinnamon and then mixed into
honey. Three mornings is allegedly enough to provide a
long-lasting effect.
Sexual Prowess Spell
Keep male fern and High John the Conqueror roots stored
amongyourclothing.Whenyouweartheclothing,youwill
allegedly radiate sexual magnetism.
Virility Charm Horns
Doublehornsevokeprimalfemalepower,reflectingtheap-
pearance of women’s internal sexual organs; a single horn
manifests male primal power and sexual vigor for obvious
reasons. Although men aren’t inherently vulnerable to the
Evil Eye, their sexual power and reproductive capacity are
amongtheEvilEye’sprimarytargets.Charmsrepresenting671/901
horns,traditionallywornaroundtheneck,potentlyprotect
male genitalia and virility.
Ya Ya Powder
Grind,powder,andblendthefollowing:cinnamon,pepper-
mint, red sandalwood, and vetiver. Dust the sheets or dust
yourself to inspire your partner.
Summoning Spells
Summoning spells are exactly what they promise: magic
spellstobringsomeonetoyou.Mostoftenusedforlovers,a
summoning charm may be effective for anyone with whom
there is a strong soul connection or emotional bond.
In some cases summoning spells beckon a new lover or
someone who is a friend, acquaintance, or who has perhaps
expressedcasualromanticinterestbutthespell-casterwants
more. Usually these spells target someone whose identity is
known as opposed to the abstract new-love drawing spells
found amongBasic Love Spells.
Many of these spells, however, are specifically cast to
summonaspouse,partner,orex-partnerwhohasabandoned
the spell-caster or with whom there has been a substantial
disagreement.Theirwhereaboutsmayormaynotbeknown.
Manyolderspellsspecificallytargetahusband;womenmay
have been less likely or able to leave or perhaps there were
more direct means of bringing them back.672/901
Amethyst Bedroom Spell
Encourageaspouseorloverwhohasabandonedarelation-
ship to return.
1. Charge a substantial amethyst crystal with your
desires.
2. Attachthisactivatedamethysttotherightsideof
the bedpost or headboard.
3. Seducehimintosleepingwithyouinthatbed;ul-
timatelyheshouldfallasleepontheleftsideofthe
bed.
4. Encourage him to stay. Repeat from Step 3 as
needed.
Back With the Sunrise Spell
For the return of an absent lover:
1. Buypeppercornsandcorianderseedsfromastore
that faces west.
2. Burn them at sunset.
3. Turn to the east and let a towel with which you
have cleansed yourself after sex flutter in the wind.
4. Prayandpetitionthatwhenthesunreturns,your
beloved will return also. If necessary, repeat at
sunrise.673/901
Better Sex If You Come Home to
Me Spell
This spell was inspired by men who took younger second
wives.Thisistheoldwives’retaliation.Itmayalsobeused
to lure a man back from another lover.
1. Sleep with one date inside your vagina for seven
nights.Usethesamedate;youmayremoveitdur-
ing the day, reinserting at night.
2. Afterthispoint,thetargetofyourspellisinvited
for a meal.
3. Chopupthedateveryfinelyandfeedittohimin
hisfood.Ifthespellgoesasplanned,itwillnotbe
a brief, businesslike meal.
Thespellhastwoeffects:first,toinducehimtoreturntoyou,
andsecond,tomakesexunsatisfactorywithanyonebutyou
inthemeantime.Thesecondaspectallegedlykicksintoac-
tion as soon as the date is inserted.
Cleopatra Oil Summoning
BringanerrantloverbackwithCleopatraOil.Theoilmay
bewornasperfume;otherwisesaturateacottonballwithit
to wear or carry when you anticipate running into your ex.674/901
Commanding Doll Spell
1. Makearagdolltorepresentthetargetofthisspell
or use another kind of doll.
2. Write your beloved’s name on a piece of paper.
3. Attach it like a name-tag to a doll.
4. Anoint the doll with Command and Compel
Oil.Layitonapieceofredsilkorsatin.Sprinkle
it withCome to Me Powder.
5. Chant:
I command you, I compel you,
I command you, I compel you.
I’ve covered you with powder
I command you, I compel you,
I command you, I compel you
Hear my voice!
I command you, I compel you:
Return to me now!
This very instant, this very minute, this very
hour!
6. Repeat for three consecutive nights.
7. Followingthethirdrepetitionoftheentireritual,
wrapthedollinsilk,andhideitinadarkclosetor
secret space.
Do As I Say Spell
This summoning spell demands personal contact with the
target.
CreateDoAsISayPowderbygrindingandpowdering
cedar chips, myrrh, sweet flag/calamus, and peppermint675/901
leaves. Sprinkle the powder on the ground in your target’s
path;allegedlythiswillmagicallyinduceyourextoreturn
to you.
Lover Come Back Spell
Thisspellallegedlyreturnsadepartedloverwithintwenty-
onedays.Itpossessesaprotectiveaspectaswellasasum-
moningone.Ifthespelldoesn’tworkandhe’snotbackinthe
prescribed time, this may mean you’re better off without
him. Start making new plans.
1. Create an infusion by pouring boiling water over
damiana and red rose petals.
2. Batheinit.Whenyou’redone,reservesomeused
bathwater in a bottle.
3. Addalittleofyourownurineandsprinklesomeof
thisliquidinthefrontandbackofyourhomefor
twenty-one days.
MagneticSummoning Spell
Sprinkle magnetic sand onto a magnetic horseshoe to en-
courage the return of a lost love.
Rosemary Summoning Spell
1. Gather rosemary stalks before daybreak on Mid-
summer’s Day.676/901
2. Light a fire. Add three rosemary stalks.
3. Chant three times:
I burn rosemary.
But I’m not burning rosemary.
What do I burn?
Yourheart—theheartbelongingto[Name],child
of[Name]that’s what I burn
That he may neither be able to stop or stay away
Until he comes to be with me and stay
Twenty-seven Day Spell
Thisspellcomeswithatimelimit;ifsuccessisn’tshownby
the end of 27 days, it’s time to consider a new romantic start.
1. Cut out a paper heart.
2. Write your lover’s name on this paper nine times.
3. Cross over each name with your own.
4. Placethepaperinasaucerorsmalldishandcover
it with sugar.
5. Stickawhitebirthdaycandleinthecenterofthe
sugar.Burnit.(Makeawishifyouwantbutdon’t
blowoutthecandle.)Keepthedishwiththesugar,
paper, and any wax drippings.
6. Addafreshbirthdaycandlethenextday.Repeat
for a total of nine times, nine candles altogether.
7. Ifhe’snotbackbytheendoftheninthtry,burn
the sugar and the paper.
8. Start again the next day, repeating with all new
materials.Ifafterninedaysandcandles,heorshe
is not back, burn the materials again.677/901
9. Ifyoulike,tryitonemoretime,foranothernine
days.
Threetimesisthecharm:ifhe’snotbackafterthis,hewon’t
be.
Your Absence is Killing Me Spell
Thiselaborateritual,intendedtoforceanerranthusband’s
return,prettymuchtellstheuniversethatyou’reasgoodas
dead if he doesn’t come home.
1. Thedesertedspouseliesonthefloor,stretchedout
like a corpse, with funerary candles at her head
and feet. Stay in that position until the candles
have burnt out. This spell is from Latin America
andhasaRomanCatholicorientation:itissugges-
ted that the Christian Creed be repeated while
waitingforthecandlestoburndown.Supplement
withpetitions.Substituteotherprayers,petitions,
and visualizations as appropriate.
2. Pay attention to your words as the candles burn
out.Whateveryou’resayingwhentheyareactually
extinguished must berepeated three times, while
pounding on the floor with both fists.
3. Immediately call the spouse’s name and de-
mand that spiritual authorities force his return:
Soul of Tulimeca, you who are in Rome.
I need you to send me [Name], child of [Name],
repentant of all the grief he has caused me
Humbled and full of love for me678/901
This ordeal must be repeated for three successive nights.Luck and Success
Spells
Althoughconventionalwisdomfrequentlydepictsluckas
anephemeralqualitymysteriouslybelongingtosomebutnot
toothers,accordingtomagicalperceptions,luckisadistinct
commodity to be acquired, squandered, or lost. Luck and
good fortune, in other words, can be magically made, al-
though it may take some effort.
TheWheelofFortune,whichhasitsoriginsinthesacred
symbolism of Lady Luck, the Etruscan deity Fortuna, spins
constantly.Likehamstersonawheel,wescrambletostayon
top. How fortunate that magic spells exist to acquire, main-
tain, and preserve luck.
All High Conquering Luck and
Success Powder
Usethispowdertoeliminateobstaclesandprovideluckand
success in the face of all challenges.
Grind and powder High John the Conqueror chips,
crumbledbayleaves,andfrankincense.Carryinaconjurebag
or sprinkle as desired.680/901
All Saints Oil Spells
AllSaintsOilevokesblessingsofgoodfortune,forsuccess
in all your endeavors.
All Saints Candle Spell
Carveacandlethatrepresentsyou.DresswithAllSaintsOil
and burn.
All Saints Oil Charm Spell
AnointaclovercharmwithAllSaintsOilandcarrywith
you at crucial moments for enhanced confidence, luck, and
spiritual protection.
All Saints Quick Fix Spell
Don’thaveacloveroranyotherluckycharm?Don’tworry.
AllSaintsOilstandsonitsown:soakacottonballinAll
Saintsand carry it in your pocket.681/901
Anvil Spell
Ananvilservesasamagnetforgoodfortune.Thisritualis
mostauspiciousonspecificdaysoftheyear,especiallySaint
George’s Day and New Year’s Day.
1. Decorate an anvil with fresh tree boughs.
2. Place candles and incense on the anvil as you
would on an altar and light them.
3. Chantsomethinglike:“Luckcometous!Goodfor-
tune draw near!”
4. Offerings of straw are made to the anvil in ex-
change for good luck and prosperity. This is also
an auspicious moment for divination.
Basic Candle Spell
1. Holdaredcandleinyourhandstochargeitwith
your vision and desire. The candle may be any
shape that appeals to you: votive, seven-day, cat,
orwitch;thecrucialelementisthatitmustbered,
the color of luck.
2. Carve the candle with your identifying
information.
3. Dress it with Van Van, Black Cat, Lucky
Lodestone, and/orCrown of Success Oil.
4. Burn the candle.682/901
Blessings of Good Fortune Spell
Toblesssomethingorsomeone,scatterelderleavesandber-
ries to the winds, circling sunwise murmuring the name of
thepersonorthing.Scattersomemoredirectlyontotheper-
son or thing if possible.
Bread Spell
This ritual derives from petitions to the orisha Babalu-Ayé
andisbelievedtobringgoodluck.Ifyouincorporatespiritu-
al petition, that luck may be even greater.
1. Nail a slice of bread behind the front door.
2. Fasten a purple ribbon to the nail.
3. Replaceassoonasthebreadbeginstorotorde-
teriorate, burning the old slice.
Everything’s Coming Up Aces Spell
1. Place the four aces from a new deck of playing
cards on a plate.
2. Cover them with breadcrumbs.
3. Cover this with sugar.
4. Addsevencoinsplusmetalcharmsthatrepresent
your desires. (In other words, if you’re an ice-
skater, you’d use a skate charm.)
5. Place a silver candle on top of everything and
burn.683/901
Four B’s Lucky Incense
This incense’s aroma allegedly draws luck, happiness, and
prosperity to you while simultaneously repelling evil.
Grind the following into a fine powder:
Bayberries
Bay laurel leaves
Dried basil
Buckeye nuts
Sprinkle the powder on lit charcoal and burn.
Horseshoes Spells
Horseshoesremainamongtheluckiestcharms,althoughfew
who carry them today appreciate their ancient associations
withtheadorationofhumanprimalsexualenergy.Thelucki-
esthorseshoeshavealuckysevenholes.Shouldyouaccident-
ally stumble upon a horseshoe, this is a harbinger of ap-
proachinggoodluck.You’llgetabonusyearofluckforevery
nail still in the shoe.
Horseshoe Spell (1) Feed the Horse
1. Ifyoufindahorseshoe,wrapitinredclothtogeth-
er with some hay.
2. Tuck it under your mattress.684/901
3. Pay attention to your dreams: they may generate
luck for you.
Horseshoe Spell (2) Wrapped Up in
Magic
LatinAmericanmagicwrapshorseshoesinthreadtocreate
magicspells.Thehorseshoeisthebasisofthespell;exactly
whatisdonewithitdependsuponthespell-caster’sgoal.The
horseshoe spell below generates luck and good fortune:
1. Dip a horseshoe in Lucky Lodestone Oil.
2. Dip it into magnetic sand.
3. Shake off the excess.
4. Wrap red silk thread around the shoe until it’s
covered completely.
5. Mount the wrapped horseshoe onto a piece of
cardboard.
6. Embellish the horseshoe itself and the cardboard
withluckycharmslikefour-leafcloversandmini-
aturedice.Miniatureplaying,tarot,orvotivecards
maybeattached,ascanseashells.Smallquantities
ofluckybotanicalscanbecapturedinatinypiece
of fabric—a miniature mojo hand—and attached.
Placeametalsea-horsecharmintheverycenterof
the horseshoe for extra good luck.
7. Post this image so that it will draw good fortune
toward you.685/901
Jupiter Spells
Once known as the “Greater Benefic,” this huge planet
presidesoverluckandgoodfortune.ThepositionofJupiter
inyournatalchartandtheaspectsitmakestoothercelestial
bodiesdeterminesyourluckinthislifetime.Haveanastrolo-
gercastyournatalcharttoanalyzewhatsortoffortuneyou
werebornwithandhowbesttomanifestthatluck.Everyper-
son’s horoscope charts the gifts and challenges that are
presentatbirth.Anastrologercanalsocalculateyour“Partof
Fortune,” so as best to exploit luck and minimize those
challenges.
Jupiter’s Angel
Zadkiel,ruleroftheplanetJupiter,istheangelofgoodness,
grace, generosity, and mercy who bestows benevolence,
good fortune, and justice. Burn frankincense to attract his
attention and then tell him your heart’s desires.
Jupiter’s Lucky Charm
Themetalassociatedwithluckistin,asitistheoneunder
the rulership of Jupiter.
1. Cut out a small piece of tin.
2. Engrave it with lucky words, numbers, or phrases.
3. Put it in a lucky mojo bag and carry it with you.686/901
The lodestone may as well be known as the luck-stone. Few
things are as associated with the acquisition of good fortune.
Lodestone Spell (1) Basic
1. Dress a lodestone with one or more of the lucky
conditionoils:BlackCatOil,HighJohntheCon-
queror, Lucky Lodestone, Magnet, or Van Van.
2. Sprinkle it with a lodestone’s favorite food, mag-
netic sand (fine iron shot).
3. Carry with you in a red drawstring bag.
4. Replenishyourlodestone’spowerbydressingand
feeding it once a week.
Lodestone Spell (2) Feed the Stone
1. Place a lodestone in a small covered terracotta pot.
2. Once a week, consistently on the same day, re-
move it from its dish and place it in a bowl of
springwater.Letitsitforafewminuteswhileyou
express thanks for the blessings that came into
your life during the previous week. (Think of
some!)Removethelodestone.Drinkthewateror
add it to your bath.
3. Dry the lodestone; place it back in its pot.
4. Feed it by sprinkling some magnetic sand over it.
5. Keepyourlodestoneprivate.Letitknowyourde-
sires: add a penny or a piece of real silver to the
pot for financial luck. For romantic luck, add a687/901
photooftheoneyouloveordesireorsomeother
symbol of love.
Lucky Bath
Gather the freshest, most fragrant blossoms you can find.
Addthemtoyourbathtogetherwithpineapplejuiceforjoy
and good fortune.
Lucky Bath: Clover
Makeaninfusionbypouringboilingwateroverredclover.
Letitcool,strainandaddittoatubfilledwithwarmwater
so that you’re bathing in clover!
Lucky Bath: Spearmint
Makeaninfusionbypouringboilingwateroverspearmint.
Whenitcools,strainoutthebotanicalandaddtheliquidto
your bath.
Cats are the animals most associated with luck and good
fortune.688/901
Lucky Cat Spell (1) Bastet Candle
Bastet is the Egyptian goddess of joy, luck, love, and the
pleasures of life. She is typically depicted as either a cat-
headed woman or as a seated bejeweled cat. Candles are
soldinthelattershape,howeveryoumayalsosubstituteany
green cat candle. (Green is Bastet’s sacred color.)
1. DressthecandlewithHornofPlentyOil.Thisoil
represents Earth’s finest fruits and your wish to
partake of them. This is a difficult oil to create
from authentic materials because your choice of
“fruity”essentialoilsislimited.Useessentialoils
of lime, tangerine, and pink grapefruit. Supple-
ment with fragrance oils like cherry, apple, or
melon.
2. Place a scarab near the candle as it burns.
3. Focus on your wishes, desires, and petitions.
4. When the candle has burned down, carry the
scarab as a charged lucky charm.
Lucky Cat Spell (2) Black Cat
Blackcatsevokestrongreactions.Somefearthemandmany
still subscribe to the superstition that a black cat crossing
one’s path causes bad luck. Ironically, in many traditions
blackcatsareassociatedwithgoodluck.Theblackcatisbe-
lieved to epitomize the cat’s proverbial nine lives.
1. Holdablackcatcandleinyourhandstochargeit
with your desires.689/901
2. Carve it as desired.
3. DressitwithBlackCatOiltoprovidegoodfortune
and break all hexes, and then burn.
Lucky Cat Spell (3) Seven Eleven
Lucky Cat Candle
AnointablackcatcandlewithBlackCatOiland/orVan
VanorMagnetOil.Burnthecandleonconsecutivenights:
sevenminutesthefirstnight,elevenminutesthesecond,sev-
en the third, and so forth until the candle burns down, by
which time you should see a change in fortune.
Lucky Charm Bracelet Spell
Charmbraceletsgoinandoutoffashionbuttheirrootsde-
rivefrommagicaluse,manipulatingthesecretpowersofob-
jects.Luckycharmsmaybeunderstoodasaformofamulet,
talisman, or ex-voto.
1. Choose a charm that represents your goal.
2. AttheNewMoonplacethischarmbesideasmall
pink candle.
3. Charge the candle with your desire, carve and
dress if you like and burn it.
4. Whenthecandleburnsout,attachthecharmtoa
bracelet.
5. Wear it or reserve in a safe place, whatever suits
your magic.
6. When this goal is achieved, set another goal.690/901
7. Choose another charm and begin again. (Should
you reconsider and change your mind regarding
any goal, merely remove that charm and begin
again at the New Moon.)
Lucky Conjure Bag (1) Seven times
Seven
Place a staurolite crystal, seven Job’s tears, seven tonka
beans,andamatchedpairoflodestonesintoaconjurebag.
Anoint withMagnet Oilas needed.
Lucky Conjure Bag (2) Lodestone
Luck
Carry Grains of Paradise, five-finger grass (cinquefoil), a
matchedpairoflodestonesandoneunbrokenstaraniseina
conjure bag for good fortune and protection.
Lucky Devil!
Carry the botanical devil’s bit so you’ll be a lucky devil, too.691/901
Lucky Golden Handwash
Handwashesaremostcommonlyassociatedwithgambler’s
magic. However, handwashes may also be used to provide
general, all-around goodfortune.
1. Place three or seven strands of saffron in a cup.
2. Pour boiling water over it.
3. Let it cool, then bottle and refrigerate it.
4. Rubtheliquidonyourhands(donotrinseoff)to
have and maintain happiness and good fortune.
Lucky Incense
Burn incense in harmony with astrological signs to bring
good luck in all aspects of life.
1. Blendthefollowing:cinnamon,labdanum,cloves,
violets, lemon zest or lemongrass, jasmine, black
pepper, ambrette seeds, rose petals, sandalwood,
camphor, and dried currants.
2. Burn as incense or simmer to produce aromatic
vapors.
Lucky Talismans
Althoughthewords“amulet”and“talisman”areusedsome-
whatsynonymouslytoday,technicallyanamuletismeantto
protectyouwhereasatalismanmagneticallydrawssomesort692/901
ofgoodfortune.Talismansarewhatareusuallymeantbythe
phrase“luckycharm.”Theterm“talisman”alsofrequentlyin-
dicates a specific type of lucky charm: engraved precious
stones. However talismans of good fortune come in many
forms, including metal, botanical, and written charms.
Most talismans require no further activation than the
usual charging, cleansing, and/or consecrating used for any
magical tool. Talismans are usually worn or carried on the
person,frequentlyinacharmbag.Goodlucktalismanssuch
as these include:
• Devil’s shoestrings roots
• A coin minted in your birth year
• High John the Conqueror root
Sometalismans,however,requirefurtheractivationinorder
to draw good fortune.
Lucky Written Talisman
Archangels’ Names
Talismans frequently take the form of written charms.
Sacredwordsandnamesradiatetheirownmagicalpower.
The creation of the talisman is perceived as a spell. Tradi-
tionally, writing a talisman is preceded by cleansing rites
andfrequentlybyfasting,andyoushouldchooseyourpaper
and ink thoughtfully.
Onetalismanusesthenamesofthearchangels.Writeon
parchmentpaperthenamesofthesevenHebrewarchangels.
This is most effective if written in Hebrew script:
Michael693/901
Raphael
Gabriel
Souriel
Zaziel
Badakiel
Suliel
Postthetalismanonthewallorcarryitwithinaleatheror
metal conjure bag.
Magic Box Spells
Magicboxesareespeciallyauspiciousforluckspells.Because
charms are stored together in these magic boxes, and espe-
ciallyiftheboxhaspowertoo(seeElementsofMagicSpells)
theirpowerisconcentratedandsymbioticallyenhanced.Ma-
gicboxesaren’tmeanttobecreatedtobestoredonashelf.
Taketheboxoutperiodicallyandplaywiththecontents.Ab-
sorbtheirpowerwhilechargingthemwithyourdesires.Take
oneortwooutandcarrywithyouasneeded,replacingwith
anequivalentnumberofalternativecharms,alwaysmaintain-
ing a lucky seven in number.
Magic Box Spell (1) Lucky Seven
Charm Box
Sevenisthenumberofmiraclesandgoodfortune.Fillama-
gic box with seven lucky charms. Some suggestions are:
1. High John the Conqueror.694/901
2. Low John the Conqueror.
3. Smallmagnetichorseshoe(youcoulduseanactual
horseshoe, if your box is large enough).
4. Shamrock or four-leaf clover (real or a charm
representation).
5. Lodestone.
6. PieceofFool’sgold(pyrite)orasmallpieceofreal
gold.
7. A tonka bean.
Substituteothercharmsasyoulike,ormaintainarotating
community of charms.
Magic Box Spell (2) Lucky Seven
Beans and Roots
Fairy tales identify beans with luck and fulfilled wishes.
Roots are frequently the most magically charged, amuletic
partofaplant.Thismagicspellboxcombinesthetwoforex-
tra good fortune.
Considerfillingyourboxwiththefollowingorsubstitute
other preferences:
1. High John the Conqueror.
2. Low John the Conqueror.
3. Lucky Hand root.
4. Galangal root.
5. Tonka bean.
6. Vanilla bean.
7. Black snake root.695/901
Dress the items with essential oils of vetiver and patchouli
and sprinkle with powdered nutmeg and mace.
Metal Key Spells
Metalkeysattractpositivemagicintoyourlife,whilesimul-
taneouslydeflectingevil.Magickeysopendoorsofopportun-
ity. Old metal keys are best: check out flea markets and an-
tique stores—let the keysandopportunities find you.
Metal Key Spell (1) Mojo
AccordingtoRomanymetaphysicaltraditions,carryingkey-
amuletcharmsenablesyoutolearnsecrets,havemysteries
revealed,andfindpersonalsuccess.Findaspecialkeyand
charge it with your desire. Place it in a red silk bag and
carry it with you.
Metal Key Spell (2) Wind Charm
1. A collection of keys may be strung together onto
red thread as a charm or formed into a wind
chime.
2. An easy wind chime for the less than artistically
inclined may be made from a bent wire coat
hanger.
3. Hangthekeysinthewindtorustleupbeneficial
opportunities.696/901
Mirror and Sieve Spell
1. Fasten a mirror to the center of a sieve.
2. Hang the sieve so that the mirror reflects out-
wards. Good influences are able to pass through
thesieve’sholes,whilethemirrortransformsevil
influences into good luck.
3. Enhance with a charged magic mirror for extra
power or use a “ba gua,” the feng shui ritual
mirror.
Mistletoe Luck Spell (1)
Twistmarjoramandthymearoundmistletoeandhangitin
the corners of each room to attract luck and fortune.
New Year’s Eve Spells
NewYear’sEve,thethresholdoftheNewYear,offerstheper-
fect opportunity for a change in fortune.
New Year’s Eve Bath Spell
Makeaninfusionofmucurabypouringboilingwaterover
theherb.Batheinthisinfusionintheveryfirsthourofthe
NewYearforluckandprotection.(Note:bathinginmu-
cura is not safe if you’re pregnant.)697/901
New Year’s Eve Bayberry Candle
Realbayberrywaxcandlesarerareandcostly:ittakesap-
proximatelyfifteenpoundsofbayberriestocreateonepound
of bayberry wax. And so bayberry candles are often re-
served for special occasions.
New Year’s Eve is such an occasion! Light a bayberry
candleonNewYear’sEvetodrawluck,prosperity,andsuc-
cessinthecomingyear.Scratchyourgoalsanddesiresinto
the candle wax for extra enhancement.
New Year’s Eve Lunar Candle
1. Carve a white candle with your desires on New
Year’s Eve.
2. Reservethecandleuntilmidnight,thengreetthe
midnight moon by lighting your candle.
3. Make a wish for the New Year as you light the
candle.
Peppermint Spells
Peppermint brings joy as well as good fortune. It cleanses
stagnation, creating room for opportunity and success.698/901
Peppermint Chervil Sachet
Peppermint and chervil, two lucky plants, combine syner-
gistically to bring happiness, luck, and protection.
1. Combineequalquantitiesofdriedchervilandpep-
permint and sew them into a sachet.
2. Wear it against your skin during the day.
3. Sleep with it under your pillow at night.
Peppermint Floorwash
1. Makeastronginfusionofpeppermintbypouring
boiling water over the botanical.
2. Whenitcools,strainoutthepeppermintandadd
the liquid to a bucket of floorwash rinse water.
3. Add vinegar and a little Cascarilla Powder.
4. Cleanse the floors and threshold areas to radiate
an invitation to appiness and good fortune.
Repairing Bad Luck
“If it wasn’t for bad luck, I wouldn’t have no luck at all,”
sings bluesman Albert King.
Ishesingingthesoundtracktoyourlife?“Beendownso
long, it looks like up to me,” wrote poet/singer/ songwriter
Richard Farina. Does that sound too familiar, as well?699/901
Ifyoucan’tevenconceiveofhavinggoodluck,andyou’d
becontentwitharespitefromtheworstluck,don’tdespair.
Magic methods exist to turn your luck around.
Bad Luck Begone Powder
This botanical powder makes no promises about bringing
goodfortunebutallegedlycounteractsbadluckandprotects
fromitseffects.(Nine,seven,andfivearenumbersofprotec-
tion:incorporatethesenumbersintothequantitiesofbotan-
icals used.)
Blend the following ingredients, grinding them together:
Nine dried bay leaves, crumbled
Frankincense
Juniper berries
Cloves
Dried dill
Dried fennel
Dried tarragon
Makesubstantialquantities:carrysomewithyouinamojo
hand,whilekeepingmorewithinthehomeasfragrant,pro-
tective potpourri.
Break Bad Luck Spell
This spell allegedly breaks a spell of bad luck.
1. Carve your affirmations and desires on a white
candle and dress it with olive oil.700/901
2. Roll it in ground red pepper.
3. Lightthecandle,placeitsecurelyonthefloorand
jump over it.
Broken Mirror Antidote Spell
Does breaking a mirror cause seven years of bad luck? It
better not; many spells require shards of broken mirror. If
the situation causes anxiety, never fear, an antidote exists:
1. Somemirrorsbreakcleanlyintoamerefewpieces
while others shatter into thousands. Be that as it
may, gather up all the shards and pieces of the
mirror and as much of the glass dust as possible.
2. Wrap it in fabric or a paper bag.
3. Throwthemirrorpiecesintoariverorfast-mov-
ing stream, flowing away from you soas tocarry
away all misfortune.
Drive Away Bad Luck Bath
1. Make a strong infusion of basil and spearmint.
Youmaystrainthebotanicalsoutorleavethemin
for extra strength.
2. Squeeze in the juice of one lemon.
3. Sprinkle with sesame seeds and a handful of flour.
4. Stir in a spoonful ofCommandandCompel Oil.
5. Fill a bathtub with water.
6. Carry the bowl with the infusion to the tub.701/901
7. Standinthetubofwater,pourorladletheinfu-
sion over your head, sit down and soak.
Out With Bad Luck, In With the
Best Luck Spell
Burnthatcandleatbothends!Eliminatemisfortuneand,be-
cause nature abhors a vacuum, simultaneously attract
something positive to replace it.
1. Obtainoneredandblackdouble-actioncandle.It
maybenecessarytotrimthebottomofthecandle,
exposing the wick, so that both ends may be
burned simultaneously.
2. Carvewhatyouwishtoeliminatefromyourlifeon
the black end.
3. Carvewhatyou’dliketoseemanifestinyourlife
on the red end.
4. Ideally,placethecandlehorizontallyonacandle-
stick with a spike. Otherwise drive a long nail or
pin through the border dividing the colors. Place
thecandlehorizontallyoveranopenbottle,insert-
ing the pin to provide balance and stability.
5. Burn at both ends simultaneously.702/901
Walking Under Ladders Antidote
Spell
Amongthemostcommonsuperstitionsisthefearofwalking
beneathaladder,andmanywillgowelloutoftheirwayto
avoiddoingso.Shouldyoufindyourselfforcedtowalkbe-
neath a ladder there is an antidote to avoid bad luck. This
spell must be cast when you walk under the ladder.
1. Crossyourfingersasyouapproachtheladder.(If
this isn’t possible, a knot may be made instead.)
2. Keepyourfingerscrosseduntiladogisobserved.
Once you sight that dog, you’re home free. Un-
cross your fingers; untie your knot.
Wishing Spells
Sometimesit’snotgeneralgoodfortunethat’srequired;you
need one special wish fulfilled. Luck and Success Spells at-
tempt to magically generate general good fortune. Wishing
Spellstendtohaveonespecificdesireinmind.Nowanyone
canwish:allyouhavetodoisthinkorarticulateit.However,
special magic spells and techniques enhance the chances of
success, helping transform hopeful wishes into concrete
reality.703/901
Apple of Desire
With a thorn or pin, scratch your wish into the skin of a
beautiful apple. Hold the apple in both hands and contem-
plateyourdesire.Diptheappleincinnamonhoneyandeatit
completely, savoring each bite.
Dandelion Wishing Spell
Make a wish while holding a dried dandelion. Hold that
thought in your mind, and then blow all the seeds off the
dandelionwithonebreath.Ifthiscanbeaccomplished,your
wish should be fulfilled.
First Star Spell
Starlight, star bright
First star I see tonight
I wish I may, I wish I might
Have this wish I wish tonight
Thisrhymehasbeenrelegatedtothenurseryyetitrecallsa
potent Wishing Spell.
1. Pay attention at twilight; it’s easy to miss your
opportunity.
2. Ifyoucancatchsightoftheveryfirstsolostarin
thesky,gazeatitandmakeyourwish.(Therhyme
charm may be incorporated but it’s not necessary.)704/901
3. If the first star can’t be identified, luck isn’t with
you: save the spell for another night.
The Four-leaf Clover
Accordingtolegend,ifyoufindafour-leafcloverandwish
uponit,yourwishwillcometrue.Well,nothingisguaran-
teed, not even if it’s legendary, but a special magical tech-
nique exists to maximize a four-leaf clover’s wishfulfilling
potential.
When you wish upon the clover, count each leaf. Each
offersauniqueformofgoodfortune.Visualizehowyou’dbe-
nefit from their promise:
• The first leaf to the left of the stem is fame
• The second leaf to the left of the stem is money
• The third leaf to the left of the stem is love
• The fourth leaf to the left of the stem is good
health
Perhaps the first step should be to find a four-leaf clover!
However,ametalcharmmaybeused,andmaybeprefer-
able: its leaves won’t fall off while you’re counting!
Lucky Bamboo Wish Spell
Carveyourwishintoapieceofbambooandburyitinasafe
place.705/901
Lunar Wish Spells
Wishing upon the moon is easier than wishing upon a star;
however,aswithstellarwishspells,timingiseverything.The
moon is the heavenly body most associated with granting
wishes.
Lunar Wish Spell (1) Basic
When you catch sight of a particularly beautiful, evocative
moon,stopandgazeatit.Concentrateonyourdesire,look
at the moon and make one explicit well-articulated and
defined wish.
Lunar Wish Spell (2) Full Moon
1. Stand naked in the light of the Full Moon.
2. Go through the motions of bathing in the
moonbeams.
3. Gaze at the moon while doing this: when ready,
make whatever petition you please.
4. Watchforanimmediateresponse:iftheMoonre-
mainsclear,it’sapositivesign.IftheMoonbright-
ensandthelightintensifies,thisisanextraauspi-
cioussign.Ifacloudpassesacrossthemoon,you
can anticipate some difficulty in achieving your
desire. Take some further magical steps or per-
haps reassess your desire. Work on it until the
next Full Moon and repeat.706/901
Lunar Wish Spell (3) New Moon
The following is a Romany ritual to greet the New Moon.
Greet each New Moon by chanting something like this:
Here is the New Moon.
The New Moon has arrived.
Be lucky for me now
You’ve found me penniless
Leave me rich and prosperous.
Leave us with money.
Leave us with good health
Leave us with love.
Nine of Cups Wish-Fulfillment
Spell
The nine of cups tarot card is traditionally considered “the
wish card,” a happy card that indicates your wishes will
come true.
1. RemovethenineofcupscardfromaRider-Waite
tarot deck or another deck that illustrates the
MinorArcana.(SomedecksonlyillustratetheMa-
jor Arcana.)
2. Placethecarduprightbetweenagoldandasilver
candle.
3. Lightthecandles;gazeatthecardandclearly,dis-
tinctly, articulate what it is you truly want.707/901
4. Whenthecandlesburndown,placethecardunder
yourpillow.Furtherinformationmayberevealed
in your dreams.
Ocean Spirit Wish Spell
Address your request to Aphrodite, Poseidon, Yemaya, or
anyotheroceanspirityouchoose,butaddressitspecifically
tosomeone.Don’tsendoutagenericrequest.Writeyourre-
quest or query on rice paper or some other biodegradable
paper. Launch it into the waves and await your response.
Sage Wishing Spell
1. Write your wish on a single sage leaf.
2. Placeitbeneathyourpillowforthreeconsecutive
nights.
3. Shouldthissageleafappearinyourdreamsatany
time during these three nights, your wish should
be fulfilled.
4. Ifnot,whatyou’rerequestingiscomplexanddiffi-
cult.BurythesageleafinEarth,requestingthat,if
your wish is beneficial, it will grow to fruition. If
realizing your dream would be harmful, request
that the energy and desire dissipate safely into
Earth.708/901
Uninterrupted Happiness Wish
Spell
Nine coins strung onto red cord represent “uninterrupted
happiness,”accordingtoChinesesymbolism.Thesecoinson
the cord will also help you turn wishes into reality.
1. Makeninewishes;onewishmayalsoberepeated
nine times for extra emphasis and power.
2. Collect nine I-Ching (replica) coins.
3. Stringeachonewhileconcentratingonawish.Af-
firm that each wish is received as you tie each
knot.
4. Whenthecordiscomplete,keepitinasafe,secret
place.
Wishing Stones
Make a wish upon a…stone? Certain stones are believed to
havethepowertohelpyouachieveyourwishes.Preservedin
charmbags,theymaybetakenoutasneeded,toenhanceall
wishes and increase the odds of success. Those reputedly
mostpowerfulincludeamberandholedstones.(Yes,amber
isreallyfossilizedtreeresin,howeverbecauseitsancientori-
gins were mysterious, people classified it as a mineral and
thatancientclassificationmoreorlessremains,atleastma-
gically speaking.)
Hold the stone in your left hand while concentrating
uponyourwishandvisualizingitssuccess.Rubitwithyour709/901
thumbinaclockwisemotion.Keepthestoneinyourpocket
and rub it with your thumb as desired to reinforce this wish.
Yarrow Wish Spell
The very first blooming yarrow that you see is a magical
plantthatcangrantyouonewish.Holdthebloominyour
handandmakeyourwish.Thatnight,sleepwiththeplant
below your pillow.Marriage and Divorce
Spells
Because marriage, handfasting, or any ritualized union
isoneofthemajorthresholdsoflife,it’sperceivedasatimeof
tremendous power, promise, and vulnerability. The entire
marriageceremony,thearrangementsprecedingit,andpost-
nuptialcelebrationsmaybeperceivedasahugeseriesofma-
gicspellsasmuchasareligioussacrament.Insomecases,it’s
consciously both.
Activate an Engagement Ring
Inregardstopromotingandpreservingloveandlong-term
relationships,theemeraldisbyfarthebestchoiceforanen-
gagementring.Howeverthefollowingritualtransformsany
ring into an enchanted ring of love.
1. First obtain the ring.
2. Tieittoaredsilkthreadandsuspenditintothe
smoke made from burning frankincense and
myrrh, patchouli and vetiver.
3. Wrap it securely in silk cloth. (You may remove
the thread.)
4. Wearthispacketforninedaysandnightsagainst
your skin, preferably next to your heart or under
your left armpit.
5. Pass it through the incense again.711/901
6. Makeabraidfromthreeofyourhairsandthreeof
your beloved’s.
7. Wrap this around the ring.
8. Wrap the ring with the braid in silk again.
9. Wear it for an additional six days against your
heart or in your armpit.
10. Ontheseventhday,removethelover’sbraidand
present the ring to your beloved.
Bride’s Anti-Evil Eye Spell
OneofthepsychicdangersinherentontheWeddingDayis
that so much celebration and happiness will inevitably at-
tract the envious eyes of jealous spirits, or the Evil Eye.
AmongthoseperceivedasvulnerabletotheEvilEye,brides
rankhighest,rightalongsideinfantsandpregnantwomen.
Although many protection spells exist, this one specifically
targets the Evil Eye.
Thebrideholdsacoinunderherleftarmpitduringthe
marriageceremony.Uponleavingtheceremony,thecoinis
secretlyanddiscreetlyallowedtofalltotheground,eitheras
apaymenttospiritswhowillprotectfromtheEvilEyeoras
a bribe to the spirits. Whoever discovers and picks up this
coin unknowingly obtains a year’s good fortune.
Bridal Bouquet Spell: Heather
Incorporate white heather into the bridal bouquet for luck
and protection.712/901
Bridal Bouquet Spell: Queen of the
Meadow
QueenoftheMeadow’sothernickname,bridewort,indicates
itsaffinitywithbrides.Carrysomewithinthebridalbouquet
to obtain all the happiest marriage blessings.
Bridal Bouquet Spell: Yarrow
Incorporateyarrowintothebridalbouquetforsevenyears
of happiness.
Bridal Protection Spells
Because the bride is perceived as so psychically vulnerable,
hiddenamuletsandcharmsserveasmagicalbodyguardsdur-
ing the ceremony. Because the distinctive bridal gown so
clearlyidentifiesthebride,exposinghervulnerability,sothe
gown becomes the most common tool of protection. Special
spellsandcharmssimultaneouslyprotectthebridewhilepro-
moting romance and devotion.713/901
Bridal Protection Spell (1)
Botanicals
Sewherbsintothehemand/orbeltoftheweddinggownto
bringloveandromancetothemarriage.Favorableherbsin-
clude clover, elecampane, lavender, and powdered mistletoe.
Bridal Protection Spell (2) Garter
Thebridalgarterwasoriginallyaprotectivegarment,inten-
dedtosafeguardthebridefromspiritualdanger.Formax-
imummagicalprotection,insteadofthetypicalbluegarter,
weararedonewithapieceofsilverattached.Rememberto
charge it with your desire.
Bridal Protection Spell (3) Mother
Goose
Mother Goose rides through the air on a very fine gander.
Today, Mother Goose is limited to the nursery, her rhymes
intended to entertain only the youngest, least sophisticated
children, yet Mother Goose’s namesake bird links her to a
hostofpowerfulspirits:Aphrodite,too,ridesthroughtheair
onagoose.ThebirdissacredtoEgyptianHathorandRo-
man Juno, both valiant protectors and advocates for women.
IntheMiddleAges,theoncesacredgoosebecameasso-
ciatedwithwitchcraftanddisreputablewomen.Attemptsto
discredit Lilith and the Queen of Sheba depict them as714/901
dangerously beautiful, seductive women, with one goose’s
foot peeping from beneath a skirt.
MotherGoose’sfamousmaritalrecommendationechoes
an old witch charm:
Something old, something new
Something borrowed, something blue
And a sixpence in her shoe!
Follow Mother Goose’s directions in order to provide the
bridewithspiritualprotectionandpromoteromanceinthe
marriage.
Bridegroom Protection Spell (1)
Thebrideseemstogetallthemagicalattention.Sometimes
thegroomneedsprotection,too.Luckily,ifhedoes,thebride
can provide it.
InsomeSlavicceremonies,justbeforetheceremony,the
groom is wrapped in the bride’s cloak, evoking primal fe-
male protective power.
Bridegroom Protection Spell (2)
Toprovidethegroomwithprotection,thebrideshouldcircle
him sunwise either three or seven times.715/901
Get Engaged Spells:
Obtaining Proposals of
Marriage
A not uncommon dilemma occurs when one person decides
that it’s high time to get hitched, while the other party re-
mainsunconvincedordoesn’tevenwanttodiscussthemat-
ter.Reflectingtimespast,whenwomen’slifesecuritywasde-
terminedbymarriage,mostspellsassumethatit’sthewoman
whowishestowed,althoughinrealitythisisobviouslynotal-
ways the case and undoubtedly never was.
Therearemanyspellsthatcontrivetoobtainaproposal.
Theymaybeusedidenticallybyeithergender,withtheexcep-
tionofspellsthatappealtoaspiritthatistheguardianofone
particular gender, like Juno, Yemaya, and the Weaving
Maiden.
(Maria Padilha is an equalopportunity spirit, willing to
work with women, men, transsexuals—basically anyone
whom she likes.)
Get Engaged Spell (1) Bride and
Groom Candle
Spiritual supply stores sell candles in the shape of a con-
joinedbrideandgroom.Thisparticularspellcanalsoserve
as a binding spell.
1. Usethistypeofcandleorplacetwofigurecandles
side by side.716/901
2. Carve and dress the candle(s).
3. Bind them with ribbons, knotting in desires and
blessings.
4. Perform a marriage ceremony over the candles,
using your name and that of your beloved.
5. When you have pronounced them husband and
wife, burn the candle(s).
Get Engaged Spell (2) Elderflowers
SuccessfullyaccomplishthisspellandEnglishfolktradition
says you’ll be wed within the year.
1. Pourboilingwateroverelder-flowerstocreatean
infusion.
2. Allow this to cool, then strain, discarding the
botanicals and reserving the infused liquid.
3. Add this elderflower infusion to beer or wine.
4. Contrive to drink from a shared glass.
Get Engaged Spell (3)
Midsummer’s Eve
Dance around nine Midsummer’s bonfires to be married
within the year.717/901
Happy Marriage Spells
For on-going, ever-present marriage blessings:
Happy Marriage Spell (1) Ducks
Ducksallegedlymateforlife.Inanycase,theirmaritalsuc-
cessrateisamongthebestintheanimalkingdom,farsuper-
ior to that of humans, no doubt. A pair of mandarin ducks
servesasaluckymarriagecharminthehopesthatyou’llbe
abletoemulatetheirdevotiontoeachother.Theseducksepi-
tomize faithfulness and fidelity.
Postanimageofmandarinducksprominentlyinyour
home. Or place a matched pair of statues somewhere stra-
tegic to radiate happiness there.
Happy Marriage Spell (2)
Marjoram Crown
Marjoram is among Aphrodite’s sacred herbs. Crown the
brideandgroomwithmarjoramgarlandstoensuremarital
happiness and romantic bliss.718/901
Happy Marriage Spell (3) Orange
Blossom
1. Reserveorangeblossomsfromthebride’sbouquet
or garland.
2. Donotletthemwhitherbutburnthem,together
with a piece of parchment bearing the names of
each member of the couple.
3. Puttheashesinaredbagorsmallbottle,together
withapieceoftruesilver,andstoreinasafe,dis-
creetplacetoprotectandpreserveloveandmarit-
al harmony.
Happy Marriage Spell (4)
Rosemary
Thebrideandgroomshoulddiparosemarywandintotheir
first drink as a married couple and sip from a single glass
together, to preserve love and happiness.
Happy Marriage Spell (5) Trees
Surround your home with magnolia and pine trees to
provide a shield to preserve and protect your happy
marriage.719/901
Heartache and Stress Spell
To remedy marital problems:
1. Fill a glass with sea salt, rose water and either
Holy WaterorNotre Dame Water.
2. Dropyourweddingringintheglassandletitsoak
overnight.
3. Recite your wedding vows as you remember them.
In-Law Spell (1)
Trouble with the in-laws? Oregano allegedly keeps
meddlesome in-laws away. Greek oregano is allegedly the
most magically powerful member of the species.
Don’t cook the oregano for your spouse’s troublesome
relations—fumigate the premises instead. In addition, you
may wish to fumigate their photographs at regular
intervals.
In-Law Spell (2)
Iftheywon’tstayaway,perhapsyoucaninspiresomeaffec-
tion.Thisspellmaybeusedonanyonealthoughit’smosttra-
ditionally associated with mothers-in-law. It inspires affec-
tionratherthanpassionatelove;thisisnotasubstitutionfor
one of the Notorious Potions.
1. Grind up your fingernail clippings.720/901
2. Brew them in a hot beverage, preferably coffee.
3. Serve to your target.
Fidelity Spells
Fidelityisagenteel,pioustermforwhatessentiallytranslates
toexpectedsexualexclusivity.Somehaveagreaterneedforit
than others; some are better able to provide it than others.
Notoriouspotionsmaymakesomeoneloveyouforever;bind-
ingspellsmaykeepthatpersonbyyoursideforever;however
neitherguaranteesthattheotherpartywillbesexuallyfaith-
ful to you, hence development of Fidelity Spells.
There are two kinds of Fidelity Spells. Certain Fidelity
Spells magically encourage faithfulness and fidelity: they
stimulatetheotherpartytowanttobefaithfultowardyouor
at least not to seek out other opportunities. Other Fidelity
Spellsrefusetotakechancesbutattempttoenforcesexualex-
clusivity, one way or another.
Fidelity Encouraging Spells
Bed of Magnolia Spell
Magnolia trees represent happy matrimony, so line your
mattresswithmagnolialeaves.Orslipamagnoliablossom
underyourpartner’spillowwhileheorsheisasleeptoen-
courage fidelity. Periodically replace the leaves, burying or
burning the old ones.721/901
Be True Charm Bag
Thisconjurebagincorporatesthethree“Cs”offidelity.Two
bags may be made and exchanged as a promise of
exclusivity.
1. Placecaraway,cumin,andcorianderseedsinared
charm bag.
2. Add pine needles and an unadorned gold ring.
3. Ideally this should be sewn within your partner’s
clothing,butitmaybeplacedunderneaththemat-
tress on his side of the bed, too.
Clothing Spell
Thisspellstronglyencouragesfidelitybutalsohasanaphro-
disiac edge to it, so that he’ll be kept content while faithful.
1. Obtainanunwashedpieceofyourlover’sclothing,
ideallyunderwearorasock.Youmayalsouseany
fabric that has been soiled with his sexual emis-
sions. Cut a piece of the bed linen if necessary.
2. Wearitinsideyourownunderwearforsevendays,
wearing that same underwear for seven days. Do
notlaundereitheryourunderwearorhisitemdur-
ingthattime.Theycanneverbelaunderedagain
or the spell will be broken.
3. On the eighth day, tie your underwear together
with his item, with a red silk ribbon.722/901
4. Placetheminajarandcoverwithpowderedcon-
fectioner’s sugar, spikenard, damiana, licorice
root, sweet flag, and vetiver.
5. Seal it shut and hide it safely.
Elderberry Fidelity Spell
Allegedlycarryingelderberriesandtwigsguardsagainstthe
temptations of adultery. Place some in two conjure bags.
Carryoneyourselfandeithergiveonetotheotherpartyor
slip it into his or her pocket, as you deem appropriate.
Fidelity Candle
Powdercarawayseeds,cumin,andlicoricerootandaddto
grapeseedoil.Carveafigurecandletorepresentyourpart-
ner; dress with this oil and burn.
Fidelity Wash
Create a strong infusion by pouring boiling water over
caraway and cumin seeds and senna leaves. Strain out the
botanicalmaterialandusetheliquidtowashyourpartner’s
underwear and socks.723/901
Footprint Spell
Gatheryourlover’sfootprintupinitsentirety.(Ifyoumiss
any,thespellmaynotwork.)Pourthedirtintoabag,which
should be placed safely beneath your pillow or mattress.
Hair Spell (1) Commanding,
Compelling
1. Obtain a lock of your lover’s hair.
2. Sprinkle it withCommand and Compel Oil.
3. Placeitinasmallpieceofwhitelinen.Wrapitto-
wardyou,knottingitsecurelyshutwithblue,red,
or gold silk thread.
4. Carry it in your pocket or in a charm bag.
Hair Spell (2) Perfume
1. Obtaintwostrandsofhisorherhairandtiethem
together to two strands of your own.
2. Place these hairs inside a bottle of your favorite
fragrance together with an Adam and Eve root.
3. Every morning, ideally before he or she awakes,
placeadropofthisfragranceundereachofyour
arms.724/901
Hair and Ashes Fidelity Spell
This spell, timed to coincide with the New Moon, allegedly
keeps your lover true for one lunar cycle.
1. Burnanintimateitemofyourlover’sclothing,re-
serving the ashes.
2. Braid or otherwise entwine a lock of your lover’s
hair with your own and place on a white cloth.
3. Blendthereservedasheswithdriedcrumbledver-
vain and sprinkle over the hair.
4. Wrapeverythingupinthecloth,alwaysfoldingit
toward you.
5. Burythepacketunderyourthresholdordoorstep
at the New Moon.
6. Repeat as needed.
Heartsease Fidelity Spell
Heartsease, the wild pansy’s nickname, reveals its magic
powertoeaseaworriedheart.Wrapheartseaseinyourlov-
er’s unwashed underwear or sock. Bury it in Earth.
Hibiscus Fidelity Spell
Sprinklecrumbledhibiscusinyourlover’spocketssothathe
or she will be true.725/901
I Command You To Be True!
Licoricerootandsweetflag,thebuildingblocksofcommand-
ing magic, also possess romantic, aphrodisiac properties.
Thusmanyofthecommanding,compellingconditionformu-
lasthatincorporatethem(EssenceofBendOver,DoAsI
Say) are popularly used to exert one’s will in a relationship.
Basic Commanding Fidelity Spell:
Discreet Method
Sew a piece of licorice root into the hem of your partner’s
garment.
Basic Commanding Fidelity Spell:
Blunt Method
SoakcottonballsinanyoftheCommandingOils:DoAsI
Say (also known as As You Please) is reasonably subtle;
EssenceofBendOverismostpowerful.Slipthesecotton
balls among the clothes your partner customarily wears
when stepping out alone.
Prized powerful ingredients for fidelity spells may be hiding
modestly in your kitchen cabinets. Both caraway and cumin
allegedly encourage fidelity and constancy.726/901
Kitchen Spice Spell Magic Diet
Consuming cumin and/or caraway supposedly encourages
faithfulness and fidelity. Discreetly add the spices to your
partner’s regular diet.
Locket Spell
There’s a reason “locket” is a homophone for lock it. Wear
yourlover’spicturetogetherwithalockofhairchainedina
locket around your neck to encourage faithfulness.
Lodestone Fidelity Spell
1. Place two matched lodestones and some of the
botanical skullcap into a sachet. Add lots of the
botanical or extra layers of fabric because lode-
stones are hard and presumably you’d like this
spell to remain a secret.
2. Sew this sachet into his pillow.
Martha the Dominator Spell
Make an appeal to Saint Martha the Dominator. Saint
Marthaepitomizestheable,organized,capablehousekeeper,
and it is more effective to request her assistance if you are
the wife in an established family than if you are merely a
jealous girlfriend. If your husband’s infidelities are727/901
threateningthestabilityofyourhome,marriage,andfam-
ily, appeal to Martha. She could tame a dragon; you only
wanthertotameyourman.Tuesdayisthemostfavorable
day for an appeal.
1. Set up an altar for Martha; most altars display a
depiction of the saint and/or her dragon.
2. Carveagreenorwhitecandlewithyournameand
identifying, information, simultaneously charging
it with your desire. (There are also commercially
prepared candles available that are dedicated to
Saint Martha. Almost inevitably they depict her
with a dragon or snake.)
3. Dressthecandle with Saint Martha the Dom-
inator Oil.
4. Place an item that belongs to your mate,
something that somehow represents his infidelity
toyou,beside thecandle and make yourpetition
to Martha.
Nutmeg Fidelity Spell
This spell depends on the influence of the four elements as
well as that of nutmeg, which allegedly promotes fidelity.
1. Holdanutmeginyourlefthandandchargeitwith
your desire.
2. Sliceitintofourquarters.(Thisiseasiersaidthan
done;nutmegscanbeveryhard.Becarefulnotto
slice yourself instead.)
3. Bury one quarter in Earth.728/901
4. Toss one quarter off a steep cliff so that it flies
through the air.
5. Burn the third quarter.
6. Make an infusion by pouring boiling water over
the last quarter and take one sip.
7. Retain this final nutmeg quarter, keeping it with
you at all times, sleeping with it beneath your
pillow.
Park Your Feet At Home Spell
1. Offer to give your partner a pedicure.
2. Before moistening the feet, begin by scraping off
any dry skin, preferably from the heels.
3. Proceed as you wish, have fun, but reserve that
dried skin.
4. Whenheispeacefullyasleepinyourbed,burythe
skinunderyourdoorsteporasimilarsafediscreet
place.
Slice of Pie Spell
Serve your partner rhubarb pie to promote fidelity and
maintain their romantic interest.729/901
Shoe Spell
Keepasprigofmyrtleinsidearamblinglover’sshoes.Peel
up the sole, slip the myrtle underneath and glue it down
again, if necessary.
Sock Spell
1. Thespellrequiresasmallpieceofgenuinesilver.
Onceuponatimeadimeorsilverthreepennybit
or similar coin would have been recommended.
However, few modern coins really contain silver.
Use a pure silver coin, or a small bead or charm.
2. Wrapahairfromyourbeloved’sheadaroundthis
silver.
3. Write his or her name on a slip of paper, three
times.
4. Place this paper plus the hair-wrapped silver in-
side his or her unwashed sock.
5. Sprinklemagneticsandoveralodestoneandtoss
that into the sock, too.
6. Closeit with twoneedles orwith poultry trusses.
(Real silver needles, such as silver acupuncture
needles, provide maximum effectiveness.)
7. Dribble this sock-sachet with a little of your be-
loved’sfavoredalcoholiclibation.(Whateverdrink
would be most pleasing is what you should feed
thesock.However,alcoholhasapacifyingeffect:if
your lover is a teetotaler, simply substitute
whiskey.)730/901
8. Hidethissockoveryourhome’sreardoor.Feedit
with a little liquor periodically.
Stay Home Oil
To soothe a restless mate:
1. Steepspikenardrootshavings,lindenflowers,and
yerba mate in sweet almond oil.
2. Strainoutthebotanicalsandaddtheoiltohisor
her bathwater.
3. Makeasufficientquantityofoil:periodicallyrein-
force good behavior by using it to anoint shoes,
sprinkle over sheets, or even give a foot massage
with it.
You’re Sleeping on My Side Spell
In many metaphysical traditions, the left side is the female
side, the right side the male. Because of this perception,
manyAsiantraditionsencouragethewomantosleeponthe
left,withtherightsideofthebed,the“rightful”placeofthe
male head of the household.
ThisChinesespellassumes,asmanydo,thatitisthefe-
male partner who wishes to control the male’s roving
nature;whicheverpartydesirestoenforcefidelityshouldat-
tempttosleepontherightconsistently.Adjusttoyourper-
sonal situation.731/901
1. To stimulate fidelity and perhaps a little docility
too,encouragethemalepartnertosleepontheleft
side, with the woman moving to the right.
2. Whetherthisprovespossibleornot,tieapieceof
amethysttothefootofthebedonthesidethewo-
man sleeps on.
3. Reactivateandre-energizeweeklyorasneededby
placingthecrystalinsunlight,moonlight,adishof
rainwater, or all of the above.
Spells to Ensure Women’s
Sexual Fidelity
You thought only men could be targeted? Think again!
Nine Knot Spell (1) Strap
Awoman’snaturecanbeattacked,too,deprivingherofde-
sireforanyonebutthemakerofthecharm.Becauseitlacks
anyphallicimagery,thisspellcanbecastbyeitherawoman
or a man, although the target must be a woman.
1. Use her garter belt or cut the strap from her bra.
2. Tienineknotsinthestrap,focusingwitheachone
on your desire for enforced fidelity.
3. Keep it in your pocket.732/901
Nine Knot Spell (2) Underwear
1. You’llneedaredcandletorepresentyou.Choosea
redfigurecandle,aseven-daycandle,areddevil,
or a red phallus: the choice is yours. Carve and
dress it so that it is identified with you.
2. Makenineknotsinthewoman’sunwashedunder-
wear, announcing aloud “You’re mine!” or “You
havesexwithonlyme”orwhateverbestexpresses
yourdesireeachtimeyoutieaknot.Callhername
aloud with each knot, too, for a total of nine times.
3. Arrange the knotted panty around the candle. If
youhaveaseven-daycandleinaglasssheath,you
can tie the panty to it.
4. Spitonthecandleandsprinkleafewofyourpubic
and underarm hairs over it.
5. Announce:“[Name],daughterof[Name],Yoube-
long to me!”
6. Light the candle.
7. Whenthecandlehascompletedburning,takethe
pantyandtieittoahammerorothermetaltool,
something heavy in weight and implicitly phallic.
Hide it.
Raspberry Branch
An Iroquois spell to keep a woman faithful while you are
separated.
1. Find a raspberry branch that has rooted at the tip.733/901
2. Take a small piece of the root from both ends
withoutkillingtheplant.(Thistranscendsimport-
ant ecological concerns; killing the plant defeats
thepurposeofthespell.Itwon’twork.There’sno
point.)
3. Boil this root.
4. Lettheliquidcool.Takeonesipoftheliquid.Use
another tablespoonful to bathe your genitals.
5. Givetherestoftheliquidtothetargetedwoman
to drink.
Divorce Spells
Divorce Candle Spell (1)
Acandlespellforthepersonwhowouldlikeadivorcewhile
the other party is resistant.
1. Obtain male and female figure candles.
2. Place them back-to-back, ready to go in opposite
directions.
3. 3.DressthemwithCommandandCompelOil
and burn in timed increments, corresponding to
the number of years you have been wed.
4. For instance, burn them for thirty minutes at a
timeifyouwerewedforthirtyyears.Pinchthem
outwhenthetimeisup.Nextday,beforelighting
thecandlesagain,movethemfartherapart.When734/901
theyarefinallyasfarapartasspacewillallow,let
the candle burn entirely.
Divorce Candle Spell (2)
Somespiritualsupplycompaniesmarketwhatisknownasa
“Divorce Candle.” This is a single candle, usually, although
not always, black containing a male and female human
figure,back-to-back.Thistypeofcandlemaybecarvedand
dressed as above but there’s no need for incremental
burning.
Divorce: Move Out Oil
Onepersonmovesout,theotherstays—butwhydoyoucon-
tinuetofeelthepresenceofthedepartedparty?Thisspell’s
aim is to banish and remove lingering traces of the other
person from the home you once shared. (It is beneficial for
any long-term housemate relationship that has ended.)
1. Blend and grind asafetida, camphor, cinnamon,
eucalyptus, High John chips, and rosemary.
2. Add the result to sweet almond and jojoba oils.
3. Dressablackcandlewiththeoil.Walkthecandle
throughyourhomeslowly,pausingatareasespe-
cially associated with the other person.
4. When your rounds are completed, go outside,
pinch out the candle and bury it upside down in
Earth.Money Spells
Certain topics attract more magical attention and spells
thanothers.Weatherspells,invisibilityspells,andritualsfor
preservation of animals attract individuals’ attention while
love,protection,fertility,andhealingspellsevokeamoreuni-
versalreaction.Moneyisanothersimilaruniversalcategory.
Everyonecan always use more.
If there were a spell to guarantee an instant fortune,
there’dbealotofrichwitches,fortune-tellers,andshamans.
Ofcourse,asweallknowandasdenigratorsofmagicarein-
variablyquicktopointout,thisisnotthecase.Onthecon-
trary,themetaphysicallyinclinedtendtobeafinanciallychal-
lenged bunch, from the most obscure to the most famous,
from Dr. Dee to Dr. John, and from Madame Blavatsky to
Count Cagliostro.
Thatsaidthereareacoupleofthingstoconsider.Every
individual doesn’t win identical prizes; the rewards of the
metaphysicallifetranscendthematerial.However,becauseso
manybrilliantmagicalpractitionershavelived,atleastduring
periodsoftheirlives,fromhandtomouth,awealthofmagical
money spells exist, suitable for every situation.
TIPS FOR MONEY SPELLS
• PRIMARY COLORS: green and gold736/901
• PRIMARY NUMBERS: 2, because it en-
capsulates the concept of doubling
• PLANETS: Jupiter, because it’s theplan-
et of good fortune; the moon, because
it’s the planet of magic and fulfilled
wishes; and Mercury, because the Ro-
man god whose name it bears is in-
volved with prosperity and finance
• Spells for financial growth, to increase
moneyorbusiness,shouldcoincidewith
the waxing moon
Alfalfa Money Spell
Murmuryourfinancialdesiresoveralfalfa.Burnitandscat-
ter the ashes around your property.
Animal Magic Wealth Spells
Animal Magic Wealth Spell (1)
Allies
Theanimalalliesofwealthandfinancialfortuneincludethe
frog,toad,snake,dragon,cat,rat,rabbit,andfish.Surround737/901
yourself with their images to generate cashflow and finan-
cial inspiration.
Follow the direction given in Elements of Magic Spells
for setting up an Animal Ally Altar.
Animal Magic Wealth Spell (2)
Chinese Frog
Frogs are universally considered the creature epitomizing
increase, generation, and multitude. The ancient Egyptians
used the hieroglyph for "tadpole" to represent the highest
number they expressed.
1. Placeamoneyfrogamuletonaplateontopofa
bed of real coins.
2. SprinklewithmingledMoneyDrawingPowder
and magnetic sand.
3. Place under your bed, looking toward the door.
4. Sprinkle with more powder periodically.
Among the other wealth-generating Chinese an-
imal amulets are the dragontortoise, the mon-
goose, and the cow, all reclining upon a treasure
trove. This cow is among Earth’s many sacred
cows and, according to legend, if she draws
wealth toward you, in exchange you must refrain
from eating beef. The image of a sow nursing her
piglets on a bed of coins is considered particularly
beneficial for single mothers and their children.738/901
Animal Magic Wealth Spell (3)
Golden Spider
Thegoldenmoneyspiderweavesawebofriches.Astheold
saying “If you wish to live and thrive, let the spider stay
alive,”remindsus,killingaspiderisconsidereddetrimental
to one’s own good fortune.
1. Draw a picture of the spider hidden in its
labyrinthine web on red paper with gold ink.
2. Placethepictureinacornerwithasaucerunder-
neath it.
3. Tossafewcoinsontothesaucerandmakeanin-
vocation. Express your needs to the spider.
4. Once a week or whenever the spider comes
through for you, toss a few more coins onto the
plate.
Animal Magic Wealth Spell (4)
Japanese Frog
AccordingtoJapanesetradition,keepingasmallimageofa
froginyourwalletstimulateswealth.Therearetwowaysof
doing this. You can either look for a small Japanese wallet
frog charm, flat enough to slide comfortably into a wallet.
Charge the frog with your desires and carry it with your
cash.Oryoucanimproviseandplaceaphotoordrawingof
a green frog inside your wallet.739/901
Animal Magic Wealth Spell (5)
Maneki Neko
AlthoughwithpopularityManekiNeko,theJapanesebeck-
oningcat,hasbeenadaptedtootheruses,herprimarypur-
poseistogeneratecashforherowner.Thisamuletdepictsa
seatedcatholdingonehandupinthegesturethatinJapan
indicates, “Come here!” Maneki Neko’s upraised left hand
beckonsincreasedbusinesswhiletheupraisedrighthandde-
mandscash.Allegedlythehigherthehand,themorepower-
ful the amulet.
ManekiNekocomesinavarietyofcolorsanyofwhichis
suitableforincreasedwealth,howeveragoldcatisbelieved
most powerful for this purpose.
1. ManekiNekomustfacetheoutsideworldsothat
she can beckon wealth into your private premises.
2. Place Maneki Neko in the window facing outside
or across from the front door.
3. SomeManekiNeko’shaveaslotinthebackasif
they were a child’s piggybank. Make a wish and
place a few coins within as amulet activation.
Avocado Money Spell
Avocadotreesserveasmoneymagnets.Transplantanavo-
cado tree and eat the very first avocado that grows on it.
Cleanse and dry its pit and carry it as a money charm.740/901
Basic Money Botanicals
Thefollowingbotanicalsradiatewealth-andmoney-drawing
properties. Incorporate them into spells as desired: alfalfa,
avocado,basil,cabbage,chamomile,chervil,clover,coriander,
dill, five-finger grass (cinquefoil), lettuce, mint, nasturtium,
oakmoss, parsley, poppies, and vervain.
Basic Money Botanicals Candle
Holdagreencandleinyourhandsandchargeitwithyour
desire.Hollowoutitsbase,packitfullofbasicmoneybotan-
icals, and then burn it.
Basil Spells
Basil is the botanical particularly associated with prosperity
and increase. It’s used to magically increase fertility and ro-
manceandespeciallytoattractandincreasewealth.Theplant
issacredtotwoveryprominentSpiritsofWealth:India’sLak-
shmi and Vodou’s Ezili Freda Dahomey.
Basil Spell Bath
Thescentofbasilontheskinallegedlydrawsfinancial op-
portunitytowardthewearer.Onceuponatime,prostitutes
in Spain bathed in basil and rubbed their body with the741/901
fragrance to attract free-spending customers. The custom
may be emulated regardless of one’s profession. Take this
bathjustbeforeventuringoutinpursuitofanyfinancialop-
portunity.Becausebasilsmellssoinviting,thisisnotadiffi-
cult spell to enjoy.
1. Roughlychopmostofalargebunchofbasil,inor-
der to release the volatile oils, but leave some
leaves whole, especially those that most remind
you of cash bills.
2. Pour boiling water over the basil and let it steep.
3. When it cools, add the liquid to your bath. Float
thewholeleavesinthewatersothatyoucanvisu-
alize yourself swimming in cash.
4. Let the water drain and allow yourself to air-dry.
5. Do not dispose of the used basil leaves (don’t
throwoutthecash!)buteitherleavetheminthe
tubuntilyourtransactionsarecompleteorremove
them,placetheminabag,andreserveuntilanop-
portune moment for disposal arises.
Bayberry Money Spell
1. Anoint a small piece of silver with infused oil of
bayberry.
2. Hold it in your left hand to charge it with your
desire.
3. Carry it with you during the day.
4. PlaceitonyourforeheadovertheThirdEyearea
forthirtyminuteseveryday.Feedwithadropof
bayberry oil weekly.742/901
Buckwheat Poverty Protection
Spell
Blendbuckwheathullswithdriedbasilandparsleyinanun-
covered glass bowl. Keep this in the kitchen to ward off
poverty.
Candle Spells
Candle Spell (1) Basil and
Bergamot Money Drawing
1. Writetheprecisesumthatyourequireonasquare
of brown paper.
2. Carveyourname,identifyinginformation,andthe
sum onto a green candle.
3. Dress the candle with essential oils of basil and
bergamot.
4. Place the candle over the paper.
5. Burnthecandleforincrementsoffifteenminutes
daily until the specified amount has accumulated.
Candle Spell (2) Seven Knob
1. Write the amount needed on a square of paper.
2. Place it beneath a green seven-knob candle
dressed with money oils.743/901
3. Burn one knob a night for seven nights.
Candle Spell (3) Fast Cash
For fast double financial action, this spell requires a black
and green double-action candle.
1. Carvewhateveryouwishtoloseontheblackside
(debt, poverty).
2. Carvewhatyouneedtomanifestonthegreenside.
In both cases, be as specific as possible.
3. Trimthebottomofthecandleifnecessary,expos-
ing the wick so that both ends may be lit
simultaneously.
4. Impalethecandlehorizontallyonaspikedcandle-
stick and burn both ends.
Candle Spell (4) Money Growth
1. Carve and dress a green candle to express your
desires.
2. Place it on a saucer.
3. Arrange coins around the base of the candle.
4. Lightthecandleandchant:Moneygrow,money
flow Candle burn, watch me earn Money grow,
money flow Flame shine What I want is mine!744/901
Cash Boomerang Spell
AnointallyourcashwithMagnetOilpriortospendingit,
so that it returns to you.
Cash at Hand Spell (1)
Asimplespellsoasalwaystohaveatleastalittlemoneyat
hand: burn onion peelings on the stove.
Cash at Hand Spell (2)
Alternatively,burngarlicskinsinthekitchentokeepmoney
in the house.
ThesetwoCashatHandspellsareeasilycombinedand
reinforce each other.
Cash in Hand Spell (3) Extra Cash
in Hand
Rub two drops of essential oil of bergamot between the
palms of your hands to attract money. Rub the oil in your
pockets, purse, or wallet, too.745/901
Conjure Bag: Lucky Sevens
1. Fill a conjure bag with seven different pieces of
money; you can use coins or paper. You can use
assortednationalcurrencies.Youjustneedseven
distinct types, for instance: a penny, a nickel, a
dime, a quarter, a dollar coin, a two-dollar bill,
and a ten-dollar bill.
2. Sprinkle with essential oil of bergamot.
3. Carry the bag for seven days. Allegedly the con-
tents should multiply sevenfold. (Or even seven
times sevenfold!)
Conjure Bag: Lunar Blessings
Tuck moonwort into a green charm bag together with a
miniaturehorseshoe,alunarcharm,andeitherarealora
charm four-leaf clover.
Conjure Bag: Magic Five and Seven
Placeacinnamonstickinaconjurebagtogetherwithseven
Grains of Paradise and five coins.746/901
Conjure Bag: Seven Coins
Placesevencoinsinacharmbag,togetherwithvioletleaves
and a pinch of five-finger grass (cinquefoil), to generate
wealth.
Conjure Bag: Smart Ass Mojo
1. Writetheamountofmoneyyouneedonapieceof
paper.
2. Anoint it with essential oil of bergamot and/or
Magnet Oiland place it in a conjure bag.
3. Add magnetic horseshoes plus lodestones plus
somesmartweed,alsoknownas“waterpepper”or
“smart ass.”
4. Feedthebagbysprinkling itwithmagnetic sand
every third day until the money needed is received.
Magneticsandissolddyedininspirationalcolors.Usegold
and/or green (the colors to attract money) to enhance the
spell.
Creole Antipoverty Spell
1. Combinethefollowingingredientsinabowl:acup
of white sugar, a cup of salt, and a cup of raw
white rice.
2. Open a safety pin and stick it into the bowl.
3. Leave it out in full view.747/901
Dragon Spell
Thedragonisthetraditionalguardianofwealthandtreas-
ure.UnlikeWesternstoriesthatpaintdragonsashoarding,
mean-spiritedcreatures,EastAsiandragonsarebenevolent
andgenerous.Insteadofkillingthedragon,thedesireisto
make an alliance with the dragon, to harness its power to
improveone’sownqualityoflife.Adragoncan’twatchout
forwealthwithitseyesclosed.AChineseritualseekstoopen
the dragon’s eyes, in order to activate its energy in your life.
1. Youwillneedaporcelaindragonstatue.Theseare
sold in Chinatown. You may also be able to pur-
chase one from companies that promote
porcelain-painting parties.
2. The Dragon Hour is between 7 a.m. and 9 a.m.
Openthedragon’seyesatthistimebydottingthe
eyes with a new brush and black ink.
Two-dimensionaldragons(prints,posters,paintings)should
haveopeneyesinordertopromotepositivedragonenergy.
Iftheyareclosedoraverted,useanincensesticktoritually
activate the eyes.
Fenugreek Spells
Fenugreek is known as the plant of increase. It stimulates
growthofallkinds.It’susedinfertilityspells,inspellstoen-
hancethesizeofone’sbust,andinspellstoenhancethesize
of one’s bank account, too. Fenugreek provides wealth and
protects against poverty.748/901
Fenugreek Spell (1)
1. Place some fenugreek seeds in a jar.
2. Every day add a few more.
3. When the jar is full, bury in Earth and start all
over again.
Fenugreek Spell (2)
Scatter fenugreek seeds discreetly around your house and
property.
Fern Seed Money Spell
Fernseedallegedlyhasamagicallybeneficialeffectonone’s
finances. These aren’t the kind of seeds you can buy in a
packet, however. Gather ferns and look for the spores that
arecommonlycalledseeds.Gentlyremovethembyscraping
them off the leaves. Slip them into a sachet and carry for
good fortune.
Ginger Root Spell
Sprinkle dried powdered ginger in your pocket or purse to
increase your finances.749/901
Golden Magnet Spell
AccordingtotheancientScandinavians,atinypieceofgold
servesasamagnetforincreasedwealth.Carryarealgold
coinorasmallcharminanamuletbagtogenerategreater
wealth.
The Goose is Cooked Spell
September 29th is the feast of Michael the Archangel—Mi-
chaelmas.Allegedlyifyoueatgooseonthisdayyouwillnot
lack money during the forthcoming year.
Green Tourmaline Money Magnet
Carry or wear green tourmaline to attract cash.
Grow Some Cash Spell
Plantcoinsinapotfilledwithdirt.(Crossroadsdirtismost
potent.)Reinforcethespellbyaddingmoney-drawingplants
tothepot.Ideallythisshouldstimulateyourothermoneyto
grow.750/901
Has No Hanna Money Spell
AddadropofessentialoilofbergamottoHasNoHanna
conditionoil.Anointyourwalletwiththisoildailysothatit
will never be empty.
Horseshoe Spell
1. Wrapahorseshoewithgreenthread,bindingand
knotting your desires and intentions.
2. Decorate this horseshoe with images, amulets,
beads, and small packets of herbs such as dried
basil, High John chips, or fenugreek seeds.
3. Hang it up to bring good fortune.
Incense: Wealth
1. Combine brown sugar, ground cinnamon, and
ground coffee.
2. Add powdered (confectioner’s) sugar, carnation
petals, garlic chives, and cherry blossoms if pos-
sible.Ifcherryblossomsareunavailable,tryapple
blossoms or the blossoms of any flowering fruit
tree. Omit if they are impossible to find.
3. Grind all the ingredients together.
4. Burn it outside the front door of your home or
business to attract wealth.751/901
5. Leavetheashesalonefor24hourstoradiatetheir
power,thendisposeoftheminwoodsorinliving,
running water.
Jezebel Root Spell
Carry a Jezebel root to attract men with money. The root
shouldbesufficientbyitself,howeverjusttobesureanoint
with a drop ofFollow Me Boy! Oil.
Kitchen Money Magic
Tryingtocastadiscreetmoneyspell?Jezebelroot,dragon’s
blood, frankincense, and five-finger grass may be reason-
ably conspicuous. They’re not exactly standard household
items,atleastnotinmoststandardhouseholds.Neverfear.
Someofthemostpowerfulmoney-drawingplantsareinnoc-
uous culinary herbs, perfect for subtle kitchen magic for
those witches still in the broom closet.
Finely chop fresh basil, dill, and/or parsley. Whisper
andmurmuryourdesiresoverthem.Sprinkleontofoodasa
magical garnish.
Knot Money Spell
1. Comb or brush your hair.
2. Visualizethemoneythatyouneed.Rememberas
long as you’re visualizing, visualize big.752/901
3. When nine strands of hair have been caught in
your comb or brush, stop brushing.
4. Startchanting:“Ineed[amount].Pleasebringme
[amount].” Be specific.
5. As you’re chanting, rub the strands of hair
between your palms, forming a string.
6. Whenyou’vecreatedalongchordofhair,tienine
knots in it, moving from the left to the right.
7. Visualizethemoneyinyourhandasyouholdthe
hair. Visualize your debts paid, your purpose
fulfilled.
8. Whenyou’reready,eitherburythehairinEarthor
burn it.
Lucky Buddha Spell
The East Asian deity Hotei conflates a Chinese prosperity
spirit with the Buddha. Unlike austere, ascetic Indian
Buddhas,Hoteiisfatandhappy.He’sthepatronoffortune-
tellers, ensuring that they make a living. However, anyone
mayinvokehimformoney.Allegedlyhislargestomachcon-
tains his ample money-bags.
ChooseanimageofHotei,alsoknownastheLaughing
Buddha,thatpleasesyou.Hisnakedstomachshouldbeex-
posed. Rub his tummy daily for prosperity, luck, and
happiness.
Lucky Cat Candle Spell
Lucky Cat candles are used to beckon wealth.753/901
Carve a green or black cat candle with your name,
goals, and identifying information. Dress the candle with
Money Drawing Oil and burn.
Lucky Money Envelope Spell
RedluckymoneyenvelopesareusedduringtheChineseNew
Yeartobestowcashgifts.Theyareusedthroughouttheyear
foravarietyofpurposes,includingmagicalones.Theenvel-
opeisauspiciousandencouragesthemoneycontainedwith-
in it to grow. They are available from feng shui suppliers
and in Chinatown.
Placethreecashbillsofdifferentdenominationsinared
luckymoneyenvelope.Puttheenvelopeunderyourdoorstep
or beneath the door-mat to increase cash flow into the home.
Lunar Money Spell
According to this Pow-Wow spell, the New Moon is a time
for growth. So let’s put some money in the moonlight and
watchitgrow.(Okay,thismoneyisn’tsupposedtoliterally
grow: it’s supposed to stimulate other money to grow by
proxy.)
1. Put some money on a table by the (closed) win-
dow.Bediscreet:thisisintendedtoallowyourin-
come to increase with the moon, not to invite
theft.
2. At the Full Moon, remove the money.
Repeat as needed.754/901
Money Garden
Plantsomeorallofthefollowinginyourgardenoraround
the perimeter of your home to stimulate new wealth, pre-
serve what you’ve acquired, and generate more: alfalfa,
basil, camellia, chamomile, cinquefoil, dill, heliotrope, hon-
eysuckle, jade plant, jasmine, lettuce, marigolds, mints,
morningglories,nasturtium,onion,Oregongrape,parsley,
orpoppies.Ifyouhavelittleornoproperty,windowboxes
andpottedplantsalsosendoutafinancialappealtothebe-
nevolent powers of the universe.
Money Growth Spell
According to the old saying, money begets more money.
Placetwocashbillssidebysideinaboxwithalodestonein
betweenthem.Sprinklemagneticsandovereverything.Tell
the money to reproduce and keep the box under your bed,
feeding the lodestone on a regular schedule.
Money Magnet Spell
1. Anoint a horseshoe withMagnet Oil.
2. Hold it in your hands, focus on your desire and
make a wish.
3. Still holding the horseshoe chant something like,
I attract money like a magnet
I attract wealth like a magnet
I attract prosperity like a magnet.755/901
I am a money magnet
I am a wealth magnet.
I am a prosperity magnet.
4. SprinklewithblendedmagneticsandandMoney
Drawing Powder.
5. Wrap it in fabric and put it beneath your pillow.
6. Payattentiontoyourdreamsforfinancialinspira-
tion and insight.
Money Mojo
Sliceanddrykumquats,tangerines,ororanges.Addthemto
a green bag together with nasturtium flowers and dried
pineapple peel.
Money Plant Spell
1. Purchaseasmallplantforyourdesk.Ajadeplant
or a kalanchoe is ideal.
2. Gently rub prosperity or luck-drawing oil on the
leaves.
3. Re-anoint with this oil once amonth. Remember
to offer libations as needed, especially when the
plant seems to be working on your behalf.
Money Powders
Usethesepowderstocreateapathforwealthtofollowtoyour
door.756/901
• Sprinklethemoveryourcheckbooksandledgers,
into your pockets and wallets
• Sprinkle them inside and outside your home
• Sprinkle on your hands
• Sprinkle on candles
Money Drawing Powder
Grind and powder the following:
Calendula blossoms
Chamomile blossoms
Cinnamon
Cinquefoil (five-finger grass)
Cloves
Ginger
Nutmeg
Money Protection Spell
Cutasweetflag(calamus)rootintopieces.Hideonepiecein
each corner of the kitchen to guard against hunger and
poverty.
My Ship Comes In Spell
A spell inspired by Chinese magic. If you’re sick of waiting
foryourshiptocomein,speeditsarrivalbycreatingarole
model.Thisspellalsoworkswellinconjunctionwithappeals757/901
toSpiritsoftheSeaandthosewithsympathyfor“poorsail-
ors”:KwanYin,Mazu,LordAgweandLaSirene,Aphrodite,
and Poseidon.
1. Stuffamodelboatwith“treasure.”Fillitwithim-
itation gold ingots from Chinatown, actual coins,
replica coins, glass gems, sparkling beads, and
crystals.
2. Strategically arrange the boat so that it’s easy to
visualize your ship arriving at home port. One
thing is crucial: the boat must sail toward you,
never away from you!
3. Intensify the effect with candle burning and
money-drawing incense.
4. Place a Rider-Waite three of wands Tarot card
onto the boat, which shows the ship of good for-
tune arriving.
Never Empty Wallet Spell
Keep a bay laurel leaf in your wallet to magically protect
against poverty.
New Moon Money Spell
Upon first catching sight of the New Moon, immediately
jingle any coins in your pocket to receive an increase in
wealth.758/901
Pennies from Heaven
Adoorstepmessageisusuallyassociatedwithhexes;some-
times, however, it’s used for positive intent. Leave coins
(spare change, replica coins) on different doorsteps in the
magicalbeliefthatwhateveryouputforthwillreturntoyou
two-, three-, or seven-fold.
Poppy Spell
Placeadrypoppyheadinthewindowasacharmtodraw
money toward you.
Red Paper Money Spell
1. Writetheamountthatyouneedingoldinkonred
paper.
2. Fold the paper into a square and carry it in your
pocket, bra, or conjure bag.
3. Whentheamountisaccumulatedburnthepaper,
together with an equivalent quantity of Spirit
Money.
4. Repeat as needed.
Rice Prosperity Spell
Thisisn’tamoneyspellasmuchasaprosperityspell;itpro-
tects against poverty.759/901
1. Cookenoughricetoserveeachspellparticipanta
small bowl.
2. Stirthewatersunwise,visualizing thepotalways
full.
3. Murmurblessings,affirmations,andsacredverses
over the rice and then eat it.
Sesame Seed Spell
Keepsesameseedsinanopendishnearawindowtodraw
money closer.
Seven-Eleven Money Spell
1. Carve your desires into a black or green cat candle.
2. Dress it with money-drawing oil, and sprinkle it
with gold, green, red, and/or purple glitter.
3. Ifyouneedaspecificamountofcash,writeyour
request on a slip of paper and place it under the
cat.
4. Lightthecandleforsevenminutesthefirstnight,
eleventhesecond,seventhethird,andsoon,al-
ternatingbetweenluckynumberssevenandelev-
en until the amount is received.
5. If the candle burns down completely without re-
ceiptofthefunds,thistooisananswer:thewhole
situationneedstobereconsideredaswellasnew
alternatives.760/901
Spiritual Financial Aid Spells
Some of the most effective spells aim to put the task in
stronger, more capable hands. As befitting a major topic,
thereareahostofspiritualpatronsofwealth.Requestsome
financial aid.
Spiritual Financial Aid Spell Saint
Anthony
Saint Anthony is the “bread giver,” so keep a small loaf of
breadinfrontofhisimage,toremindhimthatyouneedhim
toplaythisrole.Keepitforsevendays,thenreplacewitha
newone.Murmuryourwishesovertheoldloafandfeeditto
the birds.
The Secret of the Virtuous
Horseshoe
SaintMartinofTours,inhisguiseasSanMartinCaballero
(Saint Martin the Chevalier), brings luck and money. This
fourth-century Hungarian was pressed into service in the
Roman army but quit to assist the poor. Another miracle-
workingsaint,akintoSaintsAnthonyandMartha,Martin
Caballeroisthemagicalpatronofthosewhoaredependent
on the kindness of strangers.
“TheSecretoftheVirtuousHorseshoe,”dedicatedtoSan
Martin Caballero, is a popular Latin American spell.761/901
(Althoughitsmorecommonuseisinmoney-drawingspells,
the Virtuous Horseshoe has another guise as a relocation
spell.) One may purchase it already made and then simply
uttertheincantationtoactivatethespell,howeverit’seasily
created for oneself and more powerful that way.
1. Wrapahorseshoeinredsilkthreaduntilonlythe
very tips are exposed.
2. Attachthehorseshoetoasquareofcardboardwith
the horseshoe turned points down.
3. Decorate horseshoe and cardboard with sequins,
glitter glue, and votive images of San Martin
Caballero. Maintain your mental focus on your
longing for financial stability and prosperity.
4. Whenthephysicalaspectofthespelliscomplete,
activate it by repeating the following incantation,
reminiscent of the nine magical fruits of plenty,
twenty-one times: “Citron nueve.”
Tulip Spell
Tulipbulbsallegedlyprotectagainstpoverty.Placeoneina
charm bag and keep safe and secure in a discreet place.
Turquoise Financial Increase Spell
TheinstantyoufirstseetheNewMoon,lookataturquoise
to receive an increase in fortune.Pregnancy and
Childbirth Spells
Pregnancy Spells
In general, magic spells target the threshold experiences of
pregnancy: conception and delivery. (Spells for conception
arecontainedunderFertilitySpells).Thedurationinbetween
is perceived as avulnerable holding-period, best served ma-
gicallybyprotectiveamulets,talismans,andprotectionspells
requesting assistance from various benevolent spirits affili-
ated with pregnancy and childbirth.
Amulet: Crayfish
Not from Louisiana, this is a Central European Romany
spell.Crayfish, asdepicted onmanyMoontarotcards,are
emblematic of primal female, lunar, watery power.
Having eaten a crayfish dinner, reserve, cleanse, and
dry the shells. Fill a sachet with these shells to bring bless-
ingsandprotectionforapregnantwoman.Pinthesachetin-
to your clothing.763/901
Eye Spells
Whatpartsofthebodyaremostassociatedwithpregnancy?
Along with breasts, belly, and all points south, the eye is a
consistentanatomicalmotif.Thepregnantwomanisbelieved
exceptionallyvulnerabletotheEvilEye.Thefurtheroutthe
bellyextends,themoreitdrawstheEye.Howdoesthepreg-
nantwomanprotectherselfagainsttheEye?Withamuletsin
theformofasingleeye,whichsomescholarsbelievemayac-
tuallybeaeuphemismforthevulva,bringingthematterfull
circle.
Yetthepregnantwoman’sowneyesalsocreatevulnerab-
ilityduringpregnancy:it’sbelievedthatwhateverapregnant
womanlooksat(consciouslyornot)forsignificant amounts
of time affects the development of the baby. Consider your
immediate surroundings. Surround yourself with whatever
are your own sacred images.
Eye Spell Protection
Wear images of eyes throughout pregnancy, especially as
yourconditionbecomesmorevisible.Asingleblue-eyebead
may be safety-pinned to clothing, or wear it as you wish.
EgyptianEyeofHorusamuletsareveryeffective,asisany
beadorcrystalthatresemblesaneye.Ageometricdiamond
shape fills in for a literal depiction of an eye.764/901
Pomegranate Protection Spell
Ifyoufearthatthechildinyourwombhasbeenexposedto
illness, obtain a pomegranate:
1. Cut the pomegranate in half.
2. Rub one half over yourself, especially your belly.
Envision any ills or pain or damage being drawn
into the pomegranate.
3. When you’re finished, bury this half in Earth.
4. Eat every seed of the other half.
5. If you can’t get a pomegranate, an apple may be
substituted although it’s not as magically power-
ful,norisconsumingappleseedsaseasyaseating
those of a pomegranate.
SATOR Square
The SATOR magic square was apparently spread through
EuropeandBritainbytheRomanlegions.Ithasmanypro-
tective uses ranging from fire control to caring for cows,
howeveringeneralthisiseitheragender-neutralorevena
male-oriented amulet. An exception occurred in England,
whereAnglo-Saxon traditionfavoredtheSATORsquareas
an amulet for pregnant women.
Carefullywritethemagicsquareonparchment,making
sure none of the letters touch and focusing on your desire:
S A T O R
A R E P O
T E N E T765/901
O P E R A
R O T A S
Placethesquareinaleatherbagormetalcaseandcarryit
for protection during pregnancy.
Spiritual Protection Spells
Fromametaphysical,spiritualpointofview,pregnancyisin-
herently such a powerful, magically charged situation that
various elements of the Spirit Realm can’t help but get in-
volved.Malicious,hostilespiritsareattractedtothepregnant
woman like magnets, as it is a prime opportunity to cause
trouble and heartache. Benevolent spirits, in theory at least,
also hover protectively nearby, ready to fend off spiritual
danger. Some spirits consider pregnancy-protection to be
theirprimaryoccupation.Insteadoftrustingtotheirvigilance
blindly,magicspellssuggestmoreactivemethodsofensuring
spiritual pregnancy protection.
Spiritual Protection Spell (1)
Angels
Among the angels known to protect expectant women and
newborn children are Ariel (Uriel), Raphael, Gabriel, Mi-
chael,andNuriel.Theyaresometimesidentifiedasagroup
by the acronym “ARGAMAN.” This serves as an amuletic
device to transmit the power and protection of these angels.766/901
1. Carefully,consciouslywritetheacronymonpaper.
Consider what type of ink and paper are most
appropriate.
2. Create two copies: one to travel with you during
theday,asecondtobepostedonthewallnearthe
bed so as to radiate protection while you sleep.
3. Post the amulet on a wall in plain sight.
4. Write it on a small strip of paper and carry in a
locket or mojo hand.
Spiritual Protection Spell (2) Mary
Magdalene
Mary Magdalene bestows blessings for a happy, successful
pregnancy and smooth delivery. The roots of Mary Mag-
dalene’s associations with pregnancy are unclear: is it be-
cause, as some believe, Mary Magdalene herself was the
HolyGrail,thechalicewhosafelyboreChrist’schild?Orisit
because a Pagan Mediterranean fertility spirit has become
sodeeplysyncretizedtothebiblicalfigureastobeinsepar-
able?Regardlessofthereason,MaryMagdalenemaybepe-
titioned for an easy pregnancy and a happy outcome.
Requestsmaybemadeanytimebutarebelievedtobemost
propitious on her feast day, July 22nd.
Display a votive image of Mary Magdalene. Choose
whatever pleases you, however images depicting her with
themoonorwithaclosedboxaremostpowerfulinthissitu-
ation.Offerhermyrrh,roses,andspikenardandrequesther
blessings.767/901
Tarot Welcome Spell
LayoutthefouracesandtheSuncardfromatarotdeckto
issueawelcometothenewsoulexistingwithinyou,andto
ease the path to emergence for both of you.
Miscarriage Spells
Spells for miscarriage attempt to avert it, prevent its recur-
rence, or provide for the spiritual safety and comfort of the
misborn soul.
Anglo-Saxon Miscarriage
Spells
TheseAnglo-Saxonmiscarriageritualsareextremelyoldbut
thepain,emotion,anddeterminationtheyrevealremainsin-
tenselymodern.It’sdifficulttotellwhethertheywereorigin-
allyoneextremelyextendedmagicritualorseveralritualsso
commonly performed in conjunction that it became im-
possibletodisentanglethem.Theritualsareoftencombined
indifferentorders,ortheyareperformedinseparatepieces.
Adjust them to suit your circumstances.768/901
Spell Following Miscarriage or
Stillbirth
Thisspellforawomaninvolvesaprogressionofrituals,per-
formedoversignificantperiodsoftime.Originallythiswas
donewiththeparticipationofthecommunity;thepurposeof
thespellwasunderstood,hencetheritualsellingofthestill-
born child.
Attheendoftheritual,theunbornchildisdedicatedtoa
deity so as to receive that deity’s blessings and protection.
Pagan Anglo-Saxons chose Frigg; Christian Anglo-Saxons
choseJesusChrist.Chooseeither,orwhoeverelseismostap-
propriateforyou.Thereisnothinginthespellthatintrinsic-
ally calls one, and only one, divinity.
Thisspellcannotbecastunlessthestillbornormiscar-
ried child has been buried. As with other graveyard dirt
spells,there’ssomeambiguityoverexactlywhatisbeingdug
up. Interpret however this makes sense to you.
1. Takeabitofdirtfromthestillbornchild’sgrave,
wrapitinblackwoolandrituallysellittosomeone
who will not become pregnant, traditionally an
elderlywoman.Thisisaccompaniedbyachant:“I
sellit.Youbuyit,thisblackwoolandtheseedsof
this sorrow.”
2. Soonafter,gotothecemetery,stepoverthegrave
of a dead man three times, saying these words
each time, for a repetition of three:
This is my help against hateful slow birth.
This is my help against dreadful sad birth.
This is my help against hateful misbirth.769/901
3. Whenthewomannextconceives,shestepsovera
living man (preferably but not necessarily the
child’sfather)inbedthreetimes,sayingeachtime,
for a repetition of three:
Up I go, over you I step!
With a living child, not a dying one.
With a full-born child, not a doomed one.
4. Keepquietaboutthepregnancyuntilyou’reready
for Step 5. Be discreet; don’t broadcast the news.
5. At the first signs of quickening—the child’s first
flutteringsinthewomb—theritualiscompletedby
approaching an altar publicly (once upon a time,
thiswasdoneinchurch)andsaying,“To[Deity]I
declare this child in my womb.”
Ritual to Prevent Miscarriage
Another Anglo-Saxon miscarriage spell, no less complex
than the last although more quickly accomplished, may be
cast independently or in conjunction with the spell above.
1. Milk from a solid-colored (one color) cow is re-
quired.Itmustbeobtaineddirectlyfromthecow.
Take milk in the palm of your hand, drink it but
don’t swallow. Hold it in your mouth. Without
looking around and without swallowing, go
quickly and directly to a stream and spit out the
milk.
2. Withthesamehandyouusedforthemilk,takea
handful of water from the stream and swallow it.
3. Chant:
Everywhere I carry within me this great strong770/901
one.
Strong because of this great food.
This one I want to have and keep and go home
with.
4. Don’t look around. Don’t talk to anyone. Go to a
different home from the one where you started
this ritual and there, eat a meal.
Jizo’s Spell for Solace
“All rivers find their way to the sea.”
AccordingtoJapanesespiritualtraditions,allriversend
inaplacecalledtheRiverofSouls,thehomeofJizo.Jizois
theProtectoroftheSoulsofLostChildren.Theseincludestill-
birthsandmiscarriages.Babiesliveandplayhappilyinhis
abode.Jizoisamulti-faceteddeity:heprotectsmothersand
children but also serves as a psychopomp, a spirit who
guidesdeadsoulstothenextrealm.Miscarriages,abortions
(withoutjudgment),andstillbirthsareallunderhisdomain.
Jizo comforts mothers in any of the above circumstances,
too.
1. Write your child’s name (or the name you would
havegiventhechild,orthenameinyourheartfor
the child) on a slip of paper.
2. Set it on a river to float to Jizo, so that he will
watch out for and take care of your baby.771/901
Knot Anti-Miscarriage Spells
Knotmagicisusedinspellsregardingallaspectsofreproduc-
tion:contraception,enhancedfertility,impotence,andchild-
birth. Knots are tied and released as needed. Childbirth
rituals all over the world emphasize the untying of knots:
everyone within the vicinity of the birthing woman must
loosentheirhair,forinstance.Windowcurtainsareun-knot-
tedinthebeliefthatknotsstalldelivery.Sometimeshowever
thisisexactlywhatyoudesire.Aknotspelldeterminestoseta
safe due date.
Knot Spell (1)
1. Atfirstsignofmiscarriage,makeatightknotina
strong cord.
2. Visualize the knot as your baby.
3. Talk to it: “As this knot holds firm, so you hold
firminmywomb.Donotloosenuntil[insertdue
date or select a date].”
4. Place the cord in a secure covered container or
wrap it up in a baby blanket.
5. Keepitinasafeplace.Besuretountiethecordat
the appropriate time.772/901
Knot Spell (2)
If you are prone or vulnerable to miscarriage, incorporate
protectiveknotmagiconaconsistent,regularbasisuntilthe
time is safe for delivery.
Incorporate knot magic as much as possible into your
life: wear your hair in braids, multiple if possible. Wear
shoes with laces and clothing that ties rather than buttons.
Asyoubraid,tie,andknot,consciouslyfocusyourdesireand
intent, prayers and petitions.
Miscarriage Prevention
Spells
The most popular form of miscarriage prevention spell in-
volves charged stones and amulets that can radiate power
constantly. For best success, amulets should always be
cleansed,charged,andconsecratedbeforetheirinitialuseand
then as needed.
A“pile-up”effectisfavoredwhenusingamulets.Useas
many as possible: they empower each other synergistically.
Jewish tradition suggests wearing or carrying an eagle-
stonetoenhanceaspectsofconception,pregnancy,andchild-
birth,andespeciallyforthepreventionofmiscarriage.Unlike
amber, rubies, and cowries, this is not something you can
buy; it must be found—and if it is, it is a sacred gift. Eagle-
stones are ferruginous pebbles, usually found in a stream.
Theywillberecognizedbecause,whenpickedupandrattled,
thepresenceofanothersmallerstonewithinisapparent:the
baby within its mother.773/901
Eaglestonesearnedtheirnamebecause,accordingtole-
gend, eagles gather them into their own nests to assist with
conception and delivery.
Miscarriage Prevention Spell (1)
Gemstones
Lapis lazuli and rubies are the gemstones believed able to
prevent miscarriage or minimizeits likelihood. Wear them
acrossthewombformaximumeffectiveness, althoughthey
still have potency if worn more conventionally.
Miscarriage Prevention Spell (2)
Gifts of the Sea
The ocean is the font of Earth’s fertility power. Its powers
areinvokedinmanyfertilityspellsbuttheseaalsohasgifts
topreserveandprotectpregnancy,especiallyregardingpre-
vention of miscarriage.
Amber, coral, and cowrie shells protect pregnancy in
general and allegedly specifically prevent miscarriage or
minimize its likelihood. For strongest effect, they should be
worn slung around the hips against the skin, underneath
clothing.
(Although it’s now recognized that amber is fossilized
tree resin, ancient people encountered amber lying on the
shore where it was tossed by ocean waves. In this context,
theyperceiveditasanoceanicproductandthosemetaphys-
ical, magical associations remain potent.)774/901
Miscarriage Prevention Spell (3)
Speedy Labor Charms
Sometimesmagicisn’tinwhatyoudobutinwhatyoudon’t
do.It’scrucialtorecognizethemagicalcapacityofobjectsso
that they serve your purposes, rather than counteracting
your desires.
Emeralds, lodestones, and charms in the shape of
downward-pointingarrowsallallegedlyspeeddelivery.Do
not wear or carry them until the appropriate time.
Post-Miscarriage Cleansing Spell
Thisbathspelloffersspiritual(ratherthanphysical)healing
aswellasrelieffromgrief.Itisrecommendedpost-miscar-
riage whether spontaneous or not.
Moisten baking soda with Notre Dame Water. Add
this to your bath daily until you feel it’s no longer needed.
Childbirth Spells
Birthisperhapstheultimatemagicalthreshold,fraughtwith
simultaneous psychic vulnerability and primal power. The
birthingchamberistheequivalentofthecrossroadsatmid-
night, packed with unseen competing spirits, drawn by the
opportunity for mischief or the need to prevent it. Magic
spells seek to ease and assist birth. Spells prevail upon the775/901
protective powers of benevolent spirits, plot to avoid or foil
malevolent spirits, ease pain, speed delivery, and provide a
happyfutureformotherandchild.Thechildbirthprocessis
protectedandenhancedthroughtheuseofamuletsandspe-
cial ritual clothing.
Birth Chamber Spells
Anyareaorspacewherechildbirthoccurs,fromhospitalde-
liveryroomtohomebedroom,fromtraditionalbathhouseto
taxicab,isinstantlytransformedintoatremendouslypower-
ful,althoughephemeral,thresholdofemergentlife,tempor-
arily equal in magical stature to a crossroads, cemetery, or
shrine. It is also, as is the nature of thresholds, a tremend-
ously vulnerable space. Use protective spells to secure the
birthingroomandprotectmother,child,andallotherparti-
cipants in the process.
Birth Chamber Aroma Spells
Aroma is used to create an aura of protection in the birth
chamber.Aromaiscreatedbyfumigatingwithincenseorby
warming essential oils in an aroma burner.
Thesearomasweretraditionally indicatedforchildbirth
becauseoftheirgenerallyrelaxing,pain-relievingeffectsupon
themotherandbecauseoftheirmagicallybeckoning,inviting
influence on the child. The person in charge of maintaining
the aroma should accompany lighting of incense or candles
with blessings for mother and child.776/901
Birth Chamber Aroma Spell (1)
Lavender
Diffuseessentialoiloflavenderthroughanaromaburnerto
soothethemother’sfears,welcomethenewborn,andstimu-
late emergence. The scent also beckons benevolent fairies.
Birth Chamber Aroma Spell (2)
Sage
Warmessentialoilsofclarysage,jasmine,andlavenderin
an aroma burner to welcome the baby, soothe the mother,
and relax all the birth assistants.
Birth Chamber Protection Spell (1)
Father’s Protective Spell
The father walks deasil (sunwise) seven times around the
perimeter of the building where birthing occurs to provide
mother and child with magical protection.
Birth Chamber Protection Spell (2)
Pomegranates
Hangboughsoffreshpomegranate overthresholdstoease
delivery, and also to prevent the entry of malicious spirits.777/901
Birth Chamber Protection Spell (3)
Umbrella Protection
Theoriginsoftheumbrellalieinmagicalprotectionspells.
Placeanumbrellaoverthebedofalaboringwomantorepel
evil spirits.
Ease Painful Labor Spells
Componentsofspellstoeaselabormaybefound,handcraf-
ted,orpurchased.Thesemethodsmaybeusedinconjunction
witheachother.Aswithallobject-drivenspells,rememberto
cleanse,charge,andconsecrateasneeded.Thefollowingare
saidtoeaseandalleviatethepainofchildbirth.(Theydonot,
however, make any promises regarding shortening the pro-
cess,withthepossibleexceptionofSpell2becauseofthein-
corporation of lodestone.)
Eased Labor Spell (1) Arrow
Theuseofarrowstranscendsarcherycontestsandhunting.
Arrows also play an ancient and once prominent role in
divination,spirituality,andmagicspells,especiallythosefor
love, protection, healing, and birth. These “medicine ar-
rows,”toborrowaNativeAmericanterm,aretraditionally
charged,consecratedand/orblessedbeforeuse,inthesame
manner as a candle or amulet. Because they may never be
meantactuallytofly,thesearrowscanbeembellishedwith778/901
botanicals,charms,runes,andfeathersorre-shapedtosuit
one’smagicalpurposes.Thearrowinitsquiveralsoreplays
the sexual imagery of morter and pestle, sword and sheath.
Place a medicine arrow beneath the laboring woman’s
bed.Shouldthepaingetverybad,shootthearrowfromeast
towest,soastomagically carry thepainaway. Leave the
quiver empty.
Eased Labor Spell (2) Coral and
Lodestone
This amuletic charm must be prepared before delivery.
Createanecklaceofcoralbeadswithalodestonesuspended
from it, and wear during the delivery.
Eased Labor Spell (3) Precious
Gems
Thepossibilityofeasinglaborisaniceexcuseforanexpens-
ive gift: wear emeralds or rubies anywhere on the body.
Eased Labor Spell (4) Raspberry
Leaves
Raspberry plants are believed to possess an affinity for
childbirth.Wearorcarryraspberryleavesinacharmbagto
speed and alleviate childbirth.779/901
Eased Labor Spell (5) Red Thread
Wind red silk thread around the laboring woman.
Easy Speedy Delivery Spells
These spells not only allegedly ease labor pains but quicken
theprocess,too.Becausethesespellsarelargelyobject-driv-
en,remembertoincorporatepetition,consciousvisualization
and affirmation, magical cleansing, charging, and/or
consecration.
Easy Speedy Delivery Spell (1) All
Doors Open
To ease and speed labor:
1. Loosenallknots,includingbraids,shoelaces,and
anytiesonclothing,inthevicinityofthebirthing
room.
2. Keep doors and windows open or at least
unlocked.
3. Make sure small locks, such as padlocks, are
opened for the duration.780/901
Easy Speedy Delivery Spell (2)
Crystal Arrow
Clearquartzcrystalcutintotheshapeofadownward-facing
arrowandwornduringdeliveryisamongthemostpowerful
childbirth amulets.
Easy Speedy Delivery Spell (3)
Lodestone
Lodestone’sverypresenceissaidtoencouragedelivery.Ex-
ploit their drawing magnetic properties by gently massa-
gingthemother’sabdomenoraura,demonstratingthesug-
gested route of departure to the baby.
Birth Rituals
Successfuldeliverysignalsthebeginningofaseriesofspells
andritualstowelcomeandprotectmotherandbaby.Ahost
ofprotectiveamuletsevolvedtoprovideforinfants’andchil-
dren’s extreme psychic vulnerability. It is crucial to under-
stand,however,thattheseamuletswerecreatedduringatime
when fears regarding psychic safety outweighed those for
physicalsafety.Theconceptof“infant-proofing”didn’texist
andaccidentssurelyhappened.However,thiswasalsoatime
whenbabieswererarely,ifever,supervised,infantmortality
was high, and when people lived in smaller, more crowded781/901
spaces so children were constantly underfoot—and under
someone’s eye.
Someamuletsmaynotbesafeforuseasoriginallydirec-
tedbutmustbeadaptedtosuitpersonalcircumstances:they
presupposethatsomeoneliterallyhastheireyesonthebaby
atalltimes.Onceuponatime,thebabywaseitherinacradle
right by an adult, or carried on someone’s body. Children
were rarely isolated. There’s no point protecting against the
EvilEyeormaliciousSpiritswhilesimultaneouslyleavingthe
baby vulnerable to choking.
Infant Protection
Spells
Nothing and no one is metaphysically perceived as more in
needofmagicalprotectionthananinfantoryoungchild.Pro-
tection spells designed especially for babies fulfill this need.
Considerthewarningsabove,however:manyofthesespells
evolvedatatimewhenbabieswereneverleftunattendedor
unobserved.Theirsafetyprecautionsareofamuchdifferent
standardthanthatofmodernparents.Theoriginalspellsare
offered,butconsiderwhetheradaptationisrequiredsoasto
provide a baby with both magical and physical safety
simultaneously.
Protection Ritual
1. PrepareHoly Waterfor washing the baby.782/901
2. Having cleansed the infant immediately onbirth,
preserve some of the water.
3. ThismaybeusedinthefuturetoremovetheEvil
Eyebydippingapieceofcoral,thehousekey,ora
ritualkeyintothewater,thenhangingitoverthe
baby’s crib.
Protection Spell (1) Chamomile
Hangbunchesofchamomileoverthebaby’scribformagical
protection.
Protection Spell (2) Conjure Bag
Amojohandtoprotectachildfromharm,thisconjurebagis
a spell in progress:
1. Place an angelica root together with chamomile
and flax seed in a charm bag.
2. Addacoinmintedinthechild’sbirthyear,togeth-
er with a small piece of silver. Traditionally the
child’sinitialsarescratchedintothemetal.Anini-
tial bead or a charm with the child’s name en-
graved upon it may be substituted.
3. Collect any baby teeth and add them to the bag.
It’snotnecessarytohaveeverysinglebabytooth;
even one is sufficient.
4. Keepthischarmbaginasafeplaceuntilthechild
is old enough to inherit it.783/901
Protection Spell (3) Coral Beads
Basic
Smooth pink coral beads worn around the neck provide a
child with magical protection.
Protection Spell (4) Cradle Charms
Thefollowingamulets,believedcapableofprovidinganew-
bornbabywithmagicalprotection,aremeanttobeattached
to the cradle, or else displayed near the cradle. Use one,
more, or all of the following:
• Antique key
• Blue-eye beads
• Knife used to cut the umbilical cord
• Mirror
Protection Spell (5) Holy Herbs
“HolyHerbs,”aNewOrleansformulation,isusedtoprotect
children. Equal parts of seven dried herbs are blended to-
gether:catnip,groundblacksnakeroot(blackcohoshroot),
hops, jasmine blossoms, motherwort, peppermint, and
skullcap.
1. Grind them together into powder.
2. Reserve them within a tightly shut jar until
needed.784/901
3. Shouldspiritualprotectioneverberequiredmake
an infusion by pouring boiling water over the
herbalblend.Whenthebrewcools,strainoutthe
solids.
4. Addtheliquidtothechild’sbathwaterorsprinkle
it onto the child using an asperging tool.
5. Sprinkletheliquidintoeachcornerofthechild’s
room.
Sibling Harmony Spell
A spell to promote sibling harmony, immediately following
the birth of a new baby.
Justbeforesiblingsareformallyintroducedforthefirst
time, place a few grains of sugar in the new infant’s hand.
Eldersiblingsareencouragedtolickthesugaroffthebaby’s
hand. (Never use honey, which contains spores potentially
toxic to those under one year old.)
Welcome Baby Spells
WelcomeSpellsgreetthenewchildandofferblessingsaswell
as requests for spiritual protection.
Welcome Spell (1) Jamaica
Babiesaresometimesbornwithanaturalblue“cross”inthe
spotoverthenosebetweentheeyebrows,whichfadesasthe
skin ages and grows thicker. Many traditions consider this785/901
mark to be very auspicious: a sign of spiritual protection.
Blessings one is not born with, however, can also be con-
sciously,magicallybestowed.Thisbathistraditionallygiven
on the ninth day following birth:
1. Add a little rum to bathwater.
2. Each member of the family throws in a bit of
silver.
3. Real indigo is added to the water, tinting it blue.
4. Markabluecrossonthebaby’sforeheadorinthe
hollow over the nose, between the eyebrows, or
else on the back of the neck.
5. Offer blessings and prayers for the baby’s safety
and happiness as you remove the child from the
bath.
Welcome Spell (2) Java
Thisceremony,orvariationsonthetheme,wastraditionally
performed when the baby reaches approximately seven
monthsofageorwhenabsolutelydyingtocrawl,whichever
comesfirst.Itsobjective:toformallyintroducethenewbaby
to Mother Earth.
Until seven months, a baby’s existence is considered
tenuous. Babies are perceived as hovering in a dimension
betweenspiritualandphysicalrealms,graduallybecoming
moreandmoregrounded.Untilthispoint,thebabyisnever
placedonthegroundbutcarriedinaslingonthemother’s
body.
1. Formsevenmoistsoftballsofclay,eachinadis-
tinct color.786/901
2. Roll each clay ball against the baby’s body.
3. Ritually bathe the baby.
4. Placethebabyinalargebamboo(wicker)cageor
basket together with grains of rice, coins, gold
chains,andeitherfeathersoralivehen.(Thisritu-
al also serves divinatory purposes: whichever ob-
ject the child touches first, indicates something
about his or her character and destiny.)
5. The baby is slowly lowered to the ground.
Welcome Spell (3) Modern
Egyptian
Ontheseventhdayfollowingbirth,blendoliveoil,salt,and
onion juice. (Other optional ingredients include henna and
kohlpowder.)Dipafeatherinthepasteandpassit,without
actually touching, over the baby’s open eyes to make them
beautiful, sharp, and healthy.Protection Spells
ProtectionSpellsareintendedtoprevent,protect,andre-
peldanger.Manyfindthiscategoryconfusingsolet’sbevery
clear: there is no magic spell that functions exactly like an
armedresponseguardonemighthirefromapersonalsecur-
ityservice.Magicalprotectionspellsprovidemagicalprotec-
tion. They create an aura that enhances other protective
methods.Ifyouareconcernedaboutactualphysicaldanger,
magicreinforcesothermethodsbutdoesnotreplacethem.If
you are seriously concerned about your apartment being
robbed, for instance, it doesn’t matter how many powerful
spellsyoucast,howmanyamuletsyoupostattheentrance,if
youdon’talsolockdoorsandwindows.Magicdoesn’tofferli-
cense to defy laws of Nature or common sense.
According to occult wisdom, however, there are many
kindsofdangerintheworld.Lockingyourdoormayprevent
ahumanthief.However,certaindangerscanonlyberepelled
by magical methods. These dangers include:
• Malicious spells, hexes, jinxes, magic “tricks,” or
negative enchantment cast deliberately against
one person by another
• The Evil Eye
• Assorted spiritual dangers deriving from a vast
varietyofspiritualsources.Thesemaybecaused
deliberately or inadvertently788/901
TIPS FOR SUCCESSFULLY
CASTING PROTECTION
SPELLS
Incorporate the following into spells as desired:
• NUMBERS: 5, the number of fingers on
each hand, is the number most associ-
ated with magical protection, as are the
magic numbers seven and nine
• COLORS: red, black, and blue are the
colors most associated with magical
protection
Although these dangers derive from magical and spiritual
roots,theymaymanifestinveryphysicalways,asillness,ac-
cidents,andgeneraldisaster.However,becausetheirderiva-
tionisatleastpartlymagical,preventionandremediesmust
also be, at least partly, magical.
Anti-bewitchment Spells
Anti-bewitchmentspellscreateaprotectiveshield,anauraof
invulnerability against malevolent magic. They prevent the
casting of enchantment against you, however they may not789/901
removeahexalready cast.Hex-antidotes orreversing spells
are required instead.
Anti-bewitchment Spell (1)
Asperging
1. Dissolve saltpeter in water.
2. Sprinkleoverthethresholdsofyourhomeandon
peopletorepelmalevolentmagic,aswellasany-
where you perceive vulnerability.
3. Formaximumbenefit,useprotectivebotanicalsas
asperging tools, such as rue, rosemary, or rowan.
Anti-bewitchment Spell (2) Stones
This formula from ancient Mesopotamia to protect against
malevolent magic is particularly beneficial if a future per-
sonal encounter with evil sorcery is anticipated.
1. Choosefivedifferentstones,includingahematite
andalodestone.(TheoriginalMesopotamianfor-
mulasuggesteddifferentcoloredglassaswell,but
whattheyconsideredglassmightnothavebeenas
sharp and jagged as what we call glass. Sea glass
might work, or crushed faience.)
2. Crush the rocks.
3. Blendoliveandcastoroilandaddessentialoilof
cypress.
4. Letthismixturestandoutsideovernight,exposed
to moon and starlight, absorbing their power.790/901
Simultaneouslythereshouldbespiritualpetition,
magical ritual, and fasting to bolster the effects.
5. At sunrise, massage the body with the oil.
Aloe Vera Protection Spell
Aloe vera’s leaves, filled with healing, soothing gel, are
shapedlikespears.Maintainlivingplantsonyouraltarfor
spiritualprotection,especiallyifworkingwithvolatileentit-
ies or dangerous spirits.
Anti-assault Protection Spell
Carrydriedheathersewnupinasachettomagicallyguard
against rape and sexual assault. (This enhances but, of
course, does not replace more conventional safety
precautions.)
Aura of Protection Spell
Strategically arrange blue crystal gemstones around the
homeorareayouwishtoprotect,creatingamagicalbound-
ary to keep out evil.791/901
Basic Botanicals of Magical
Protection
Many botanicals weave an aura of protection, including the
onesthatfollow.Createyourownprotectionspellsbyincor-
porating them. Try betony, black cohosh, cactus, calamus/
sweetflag,figleaf,five-fingergrass/cinquefoil,garlic,hyssop,
lavender, mugwort, peppermint, roses, rue, Saint John’s
Wort,snakeroot,stingingnettles,tormentil,vervain,worm-
wood, and yarrow.
Basic Botanicals of Magical
Protection Candle Spell
Hollowoutthebottomofablack,blue,orredcandle.Stuffit
full of basic protection botanicals and burn the loaded
candle.
Bay Laurel Protection Spell
According to myth, the bay laurel tree offered the Delphic
pythoness Daphne an avenue of escape when fleeing rape.
Place atleast onebayleafineachcorner ofeveryroomto
create an aura of protection.792/901
Bell Protection Spell
Bells protect against evil. Their ringing causes many mali-
ciousspiritstofleeandtheyarethusaprimarycomponent
ofexorcismrites.It’snotonlytheirringingtonesthatrepel
evil; bells, like broomsticks and mortars and pestles, are a
discreetmetaphorforthereproductiveact.Creativeactsof
lifecounteractforcesofdestruction.Forthisprotectiveritu-
al, four silver or iron bells are required.
1. ConsecratethebellswithFieryWallofProtec-
tion Incense. (Pass the bells through the smoke.)
2. Charge the bells. Hold them and tell them their
mission of protection, aloud if possible.
3. Hang one in each corner of the area to be
protected.
4. Allegedlythebellswillwarnwhendangerappears
from that direction by spontaneously ringing.
5. Recharge bells that ring.
6. Afteranemergencyorperhapsasannualmainten-
ance, repeat the entire ritual.
Botanical Guardian Spells
Although different botanicals provide different facets of ma-
gical protection, certain plants, especially in combination,
provide a fearsome shielding aura, prevailing against evil
from all sources.793/901
Botanical Guardian Spell (1)
Anti-evil
Allegedly,evilandmalevolentforcescannotexistinthepres-
ence of the following botanicals:
Hyssop
Lavender
Patchouli
Rue
1. Theirpowerisexponentiallyincreasedwherethey
aremaintainedtogether.Maintainlivingplantsfor
maximum power.
2. Forportableprotection,takeasprigofeachplant
with you.
3. Braid or weave them together, focusing on your
desires.
4. Place them in a red fabric bag and carry with you.
Botanical Guardian Spell (2) Nine
Herbs
The following nine herbs allegedly withstand and protect
against all spiritual and magical dangers:
1. Eyebright
2. Mallow
3. Mugwort
4. Saint John’s Wort794/901
5. Self-heal
6. Speedwell
7. Vervain
8. Wormwood
9. Yarrow
Plantthemaroundtheperimeteroftheareaneedingprotec-
tion, ideally in a circle. Maintain living plants in pots that
maybearrangedinacircle,ifandwhennecessary.Intimes
of spiritual danger, sit within that circle.
Cactus Fence Spell
TheequivalentofthethicketaroundSleepingBeauty’scastle,
aboundaryoftallpricklycactusaroundyourhomecastsan
aura of protective banishing against humans and spirits
alike.
Casting the Circle
Anincrediblysimpleyetremarkablyprotectivespellisaccom-
plishedbycastingacircle.Children’sgames,suchastag,of-
tendesignateanareaas“safe”;oncethechildhasreachedthe
designatedarea,theopportunityexiststotakerespite.Casting
thecircleissimilar:thespacewithinthecircleisdesignated
as“safe.”Nomalevolentspiritualforcecantouchorharmyou
while within the circle. The materials used to cast the circle
enhance this power.795/901
In addition to personal protective magic circles, circles
aretraditionallycasttocontainthresholdexperiencesaswell
as whatever is perceived as potentially vulnerable:
• Circles are drawn around ritual
• Circles are drawn around a sickbed
• Circles are drawn around women in childbirth
• Circles are drawn around sleeping infants and
children
Circle Spell (1) Basic
Thisistheverysimplestprotectionspellofall.Castacircle
aroundyou.(Inotherwords,standwithinwhiledrawingthe
circle, rather than casting from outside, intending to jump
insidewhenthecircleiscomplete.)Sitinthecenteruntilyou
feel it’s safe to come out.
Circle Spell (2) Celtic Quick Fix
Protectivematerialssufficienttocastacirclelargeenoughto
contain you comfortably may not be at hand when most
needed.Drawacirclearoundyourselfwithahazelbranch.
Holdontothatbranchsothatthecircle’sboundariesmaybe
adjusted and reinforced as needed.796/901
Circle Spell (3) Wreath
Wreaths are circles, too. The form as well as the material
used for construction contributes to a wreath’s protective
powers.PickprimrosesandconvolvulusonMayDay.Make
wreaths and hang them to protect against evil.
Visible Circles
Visiblecirclesaren’tnecessarilymoreeffective,however,their
clearboundariesmayprovideadditionalpeaceofmindforthe
person within as well as security: you’re less likely to acci-
dentally venture outside the perimeter if you can see it.
Regardlesswhatmaterialisusedtocastacircle,it’scru-
cialthatthecirclebeunbroken.Powerfullyprotectivecircles
may be cast from the following:
Absinthe
Amber chunks or beads
Chalk
Charcoal
Coral
Cornmeal
Fiery Wall of Protection powder
Flour
Henna powder
Jet
Lava
Pemba
Red brick dust or red ochre797/901
Rice flour
Rum
Salt
Tobacco
Turquoise
Vervain
Vermilion
Whiskey
Wormwood
Visible Circle Spell (1) Coral and
Jet
Certain circle-casting materials, when combined, create a
synergistic, exponentially increased magical effect. Cast a
circleofalternatingcoralandjet.Substituteamberforcoral
if desired, or combine all three.
Visible Circle Spell (2) Double
Concentric Circle
For extra fortification and maximum power, create double
concentriccircles:onecirclewithintheother.Fillthenarrow
border between the two circles with protective amulets or
salt.798/901
Crystal Protection Spells
Crystal Protection Spell (1) Black
Crystals
Black crystals are used to create a shield against evil and
danger. Any black crystal absorbs anger, danger, evil, and
malevolence,howeverblacktourmalinesarebelievedtore-
pel it.
1. Holdthegemstonesinyourhand,chargingthem
with your desire.
2. Wearasjewelryorcarryinamojobagespecially
when stepping into anticipated danger.
3. Cleansethesecrystalsfrequentlysothattheirpro-
tective power is not hobbled but remains at full
strength. (SeeCleansing Spells.)
Crystal Spell (2) Witch Stones
Holed stones or holey stones—naturally holed pebbles—are
also known as witch stones. In magical terms, they are as
precious as any rare gem: they provide protection against
malevolentmagic,famine,stormsatsea,andgeneralspir-
itual disaster.
String a holed stone onto red cord or a silver chain.
Wear around your neck during the day, hang onto your
walls and bedposts at night.799/901
Devil’s Shoestrings Safety
Spells
Theroot,devil’sshoestrings,isusedtoprovidemagicalpro-
tection.Thefollowingtwospellsaremosteffectiveifcastin
conjunction with each other.
Devil’s Shoestrings Bracelet Spell
Ninerootsofequallengtharerequired;theycan’tbecutto
size.Knotthemintoabracelet,blessing,affirming,andpeti-
tioning with each knot.
Devil’s Shoestrings Protection
Powder
Grindupdevil’sshoestringsandblendthemwitharrowroot
powder. Sprinkle the powder in your clothing drawers,
around your bed, and over your thresholds for round-the-
clock protection.
Door Guardians
Thresholdsarealwaysplacesofcombinedpowerandvulner-
ability.Thethresholdofahome,thefrontentrance,ispartic-
ularlyvulnerable.Wheredoesbothbadandgoodnewsmost800/901
typicallyenterthehome?Rightthroughthefrontdoor.Rein-
force with protective measures. Door guardians are objects
chosen for the protective magic that they radiate. Typically
placed by the entrance facing outwards, they stand ready to
battle and repel any approaching threat or evil.
With the exception of the Holy Child, under whose de-
ceptivelysweetdemeanoraprimordialspirithides,theseare
fierce,threatening,evenfrighteningimages—butthey’redoor
guardsafterall.Whogetshiredtoworkasaclubbouncer:a
cute,littlekidorabigbruiser?Whattypeofdogismosttypic-
ally on guard duty: a miniature poodle or a rottweiller? The
fiercer, the more frightening the image, the more profound
the protection offered by your door guardian.
Door Guardian (1) Aloe Vera
Placelivingaloeveraplantsoverthedoor,ratherthanbe-
side it, to provide magical, spiritual protection.
Door Guardian (2) Blackthorn
Blackthorn is a small tree with profound magical connec-
tions.Associatedwithwitchcraft,it’salsoamongthefairies’
favoritebotanicals.Asyou’rerequestingblessingsofprotec-
tion, it’s particularly important to request permission from
the tree, explain your intent, and offer gifts and libations.
Createarodfromablackthornbranch.Keeptheshape
simple or embellish with protective runes, symbols, and
sigils.Hangitoverthedoortorefuseentrytomischief,mis-
fortune, and evil and malicious spells.801/901
Door Guardian (3) Gargoyles
Technically the gargouille was a seventh-century water-
spouting (as opposed to fire-breathing) dragon (think
“gargle”)thatlivedintheRiverSeineandwasslainuponor-
dersofthelocalbishop.Althoughtheuseofanimal-shaped
water-spouts dates back to ancient Egypt, Etruria, and
Greece,theterm“gar-goyle”reemergedineleventh-century
WesternEuropeasthenamegiventofunctionalbutdecorat-
ive rain spouts, carved in the form of grotesque creatures.
Because they most frequently adorn churches and cathed-
rals, they, like the sheela na gig, are mysterious, evocative,
survivingvestigesofpaganism.Gargoylesgivetheappear-
ance of demons but offer spiritual protection rather than
harm.It’sbelievedthattheyareguardianspirits,magically
preserved in stone; in the face of evil, however, they will
break free to do battle.
Inthepastfewdecades,gargoyleshavebeenadaptedto
serve as door guardians. Free-standing reproductions of
famed gargoyles are available. You may also craft your
own.Gargoylesdonothavetobeplacedatthefrontdoor;
consider your most vulnerable points and place gargoyles
appropriately.Gargoylesalsoapparentlyenjoyeachother’s
company;therecannotbetoomany.Placethemasneededin
combinationsthatevokeasenseofsecurity.Accordingtole-
gend, winged gargoyles can fly; feel free to move them
around as desired.802/901
Door Guardian (4) Tiger
In Asian magical tradition, tigers are the fierce sworn en-
emiesofevilspirits.Theyarealsoanimalscloselyassociated
withwarriorspiritsandwitchcraft:atiger’smagicalknow-
ledgeisasgreatasitsbraveryandphysicalprowess.Allare
put to good use when the tiger serves as a door guardian.
AccordingtoChineseschoolsofmagic,it’snotadvisable
to maintain images of tigers within the home; because of
their fierce, uncontrollable nature, they have a tendency to
stimulate havoc. Instead post an image of one by the en-
trancedoor,eitherapaperimageattachedtothedoorora
statuebesidethedoortoprovidespiritualprotection.Theti-
ger must be looking away from the home searching for
danger.
Doorstep Protection Spells
Thedoorstepmarkstheliteralthreshold.Itisaparticularly
vulnerablespot.Manyhexesinvolvewhatiscalled“dusting
thedoorstep.”Thespellisactivatedbyleavingitsremnants
or other magic materials at the target’s front door.
Many rituals are designed to transform this threshold
into a zone of safety. Typically spells are repeated weekly
withmanyinvolving“cleansing.”Becauseinsomecases,al-
thoughnotall,itappearsonlythatyou’rebeingveryclean
andhouse-proud,thisisalsoaverysubtle,discreetstyleof
magic.803/901
(Should your doorstep ever be dusted, check Hex An-
tidoteSpellsfortipsonremovingitemssafelyandrepelling
the spell, but follow up with protective measures, too.)
Doorstep Spell Floorwash
Urine is believed to have fierce magical commanding
powers, hence its use in protective floorwashes. If you’re
genuinely fearful or otherwise passionately emotional, as-
sumethatyourdesiresareinherentlytransmitted;otherwise
concentrate on your desire while scrubbing the steps.
1. Abucketfilledwithsomesortoffloorwashisre-
quired for this spell.
2. Choose any magical floorwash formula or merely
fill a bucket with salted water.
3. Addsomeofyoururinetothisbucketofwashwa-
ter and then scrub the step.
Doorstep Spell Red Brick Dust
Redbrickdustprotectsagainstmalevolentmagicandrepels
evil of all kinds.
1. Smashanoldredbrickwithahammeruntilsuffi-
cient dust is obtained.
2. Add red brick dust to a bucket of floorwash and
scrub the front steps and threshold area.
3. Sprinkle powdered red brick dust over the
threshold daily before sunrise.804/901
Doorstep Spell Rice
1. Fill an open jar with raw white rice.
2. Place the jar by the entrance door for protection.
3. Ricedoesn’trepelevil;itabsorbsit.Replacewith
fresh raw rice weekly.
4. Donotbringtheoldricebackintoyourhome.Do
notcookit.Disposeofitoutsidethehome,wheth-
er by burning, throwing away, or scattering on
Earth.
Fiery Wall of Protection
Spells
Fiery Wall of Protection is among the most famous classic
conditionformulas.ItsnameinvokesthepowerofArchangel
Michael’sprotectiveflamingsword.Theformulamaybecon-
secrated to the archangel.
FieryWall’sbasicingredientsincludesuchpowerfulpro-
tectiveagentsassalt,frankincense,andmyrrh.Itsredcolor,
thecolorofprotection,derivesfromdragon’sbloodpowder.
SeetheFormularyforspecificinstructions:thedriedpowder
maybeusedasincenseormagicpowder.Whenthepowderis
added to oil, Fiery Wall of Protection Oil is created.805/901
Fiery Wall of Protection Spell (1)
Candle
Carvearedorwhitecandlewithyourname,identifyingin-
formation, hopes, and desires. Dress it with Fiery Wall of
Protection Oil and burn. Consecrate the candle to the
Archangel Michael if desired.
Fiery Wall of Protection Spell (2)
Incense
ProtectagainstathreatenedcursebyburningFieryWallof
Protection Powder as incense. To intensify the protection,
add powdered agrimony and/or vervain.
Fiery Wall of Protection Spell (3)
Quick Fix
SoakacottonballinFieryWallofProtectionOilandcarryit
in your pocket or tucked into your bra.
Gris-Gris Protection
The term “gris-gris” derives from West Africa. Now fre-
quentlyusedasjustanothersynonymforconjure,charm,or
mojo bags, gris-gris originally indicated what the806/901
Portuguesecalled“fetishes:”handmademagicalobjects.The
originalWestAfricangris-grisoftentooktheformofdolls;
modern New Orleans gris-gris are often a cross between a
mojo bag and Vodou paquets-Congo, although doll-shaped
gris-gris still exist.
For those who care about magical semantics, subtle,
subliminal distinctions exist, however. Mojo, also derived
from an African word, usually implies magically acquiring
success,whetherinlove,gambling,money,employment,or
legalmatters.Gris-grisimpliesprotection;thegris-grisbag
thustendstocoverthespectrumbetweenbenignprotective
spells and hexes.
1. ThetraditionalNewOrleansVoodoobagcontains
an odd number of magically charged items, from
as few as a single prized talisman to as many as
thirteen.
2. Gris-gris serves a specific purpose; consider your
goalandchooseitemsaccordingly.Itemsmayin-
cludebotanicals,stones,bones,andintimateitems
including hair, nail clippings, or a scrap of fabric
soaked with sweat.
3. Charge items on an altar with all four elements
represented.Petitionanddedicationtolwaoroth-
er spirits may be incorporated.
4. Ifyourgoalispersonalprotection,carryyourgris-
gris;ifprotectionderivesfromadjustingsomeone
else’sbehavior,typicallythegris-grisisleftonthe
doorstep of the other party’s property.807/901
Guardian Animals
Animalalliesmayalsobepetitionedforsafety.Asusual,the
mostpotentalliesarealwaysyourpersonalallies.Ifyouare
unaware of their identity, request them to make their pres-
enceknowninyourdreamsandvisualizationsorobtainpro-
fessional shamanic/spirit-working advice. In the meantime,
certain animals provide magical guardian services when
requested.
Guardian Animal Spell: Dog
Dogs provide magical protection as well as the mundane
type. This protective spell benefits an entire community.
Createpaperdogssothatyouarereadytocastthisspell
onthefifthdayofthefifthmonthoftheChineselunarcalen-
dar (coinciding with Midsummer’s Eve). Charge them with
their mission and throw them into living waters (rivers,
lakes,springs) sothatthey’ll biteandincapacitate anyevil
attempting to emerge.
Guardian Animal Spell: The Five
Poisons
Ingeneral,magicalguardiananimalsarefierce.Thismakes
sense: the Doberman is a more popular guard dog than a
golden retriever. Chinese magic contemplates what it per-
ceivesasthefivemostvenomouscreaturesandgroupsthem808/901
togethertoprovidemagicalprotection,especiallyprotection
against animal attack, poison, and spiritual harm.
Create an image or collage of the five poisonous
creatures:centipede,lizard,scorpion,snake,andtoad.(The
toad,sourceofpowerfulvenom(thinkpoison-arrowfrog)is
sometimes replaced by the spider. Use whichever frightens
youmore.)ImagesmayalsobepurchasedinChinatownor
fromfengshuisuppliers,howevertheimagecreatedforone-
selfisalwaysmostpowerful.Weartoprotectagainstspir-
itualdanger,poison,venomouscreatures,andanimalattack
ingeneral.Theimageisregardedasparticularlybeneficial
for protecting children and infants.
Guardian Snake Spells
Snakesarerenownedforpossessingdivinepowerstowardoff
evil. Think of a hidden jungle temple guarded by protective
serpents.Legendsofburiedtreasureorhiddenmagicalvalu-
ables traditionally have snake or dragon (considered meta-
physically to be a closely related species) guardians.
Guardian Snake Spell (1) Candle
Spiritual suppliers sometimes sell candles in the shape of
coiled serpents.
1. Hold the candle to charge it with your desire. If
youwish,lookthesnakeintheeyeandchargeit
with its mission of protection.809/901
2. Burn the candle to release the snake’s guardian
powers.
3. Burningthecandleissufficient,howeveritspower
is enhanced by being dressed with Protection
Oil.
4. Burn at regularly scheduled intervals so as to
define protective boundaries.
Guardian Snake Spell (2) Personal
Bodyguard
Snakescanserveaspersonalmagicalbodyguards.Methods
of tapping into snakes’ protective powers include:
• Wear snake armlets on the upper arms
• Snake rings offer protection as does snake im-
agery in henna designs
• Permanent vigilance is provided by snake tattoos
Inadditiontotheirtraditionalroleasguardiansoftreasure,
snakesanddragonshavediscoverednewrealmstoprotectin
thetwenty-firstcentury.Snakesanddragonshavebecomethe
metaphysicalprotectorsofcomputersandthetreasurescon-
tained within.
Guardian Spirit Spells
Although there are many benevolent, powerful, protective
spirits,yourownstrongestallyisalwaysyourpersonalguard-
ianangel.Ifyou’reunsureofhisorheridentity,considerthat810/901
althoughtherearespiritsthatofferprotection,it’sbesttocall
onsomeoneyoucancounton.Callonwhomeverhashelped
you in the past, whomever you feel you have a relationship
with.Thatsaid,therearespiritualexpertsintheworldofpro-
tection, just as there are human security experts.
Ittakesafiercespirittodefeatotherfiercespirits:treat
these guardians with respect. Transcending any other ar-
rangements, the necessary payment for protection is respect.
Sign of Protection Spell
Imagesofthefollowingguardiandeitiesmaybeusedtoex-
orciseordriveoffallmannerofevil.Notonlydotheyprotect
from the evil done by humans, they also guard people
against danger threatened by less benevolent spirits.
• Archangel Michael
• Bes
• Durga
• Hanuman
• Kali
• Medusa
• Ogun
• Saint James the Major
• Saint Martha the Dominator
• Set
• Shiva
• Taweret
• Various Tibetan and Chinese guardian spirits811/901
Guardian Spirit Spell: Archangels
Ritual Protection Spell
This spell is particularly effective for providing protection
duringritual.Howeveritmayalsobeusedanytimespiritu-
al protection is perceived as necessary.
1. Designate four candles, one for each archangel:
Michael, Raphael, Uriel, and Gabriel.
2. Dedicate each candle to one archangel; carve the
angel’s name or sigil into the wax if you prefer.
3. Place one candle in each corner of the room or
make a circle with the candles on your altar.
4. Encircleanythingyouwishtoprotectwitharing
of these candles, including yourself.
5. Burn the candles, replace as needed.
Archangel Michael Spell
Although the archangels (and potentially any angel) can
providetremendousprotection,thearchangelMichaelisthe
very personification of protection. Always ready and alert,
Michael the Archangel is charged as humanity’s guardian
anddefender.That’shismission,hisraisond’être.Puthimto
work if his services are required. Although Michael the
Archangelwillrespondtoanycallforhelp,heisaparticular
vigilant defender against rape and sexual assault.
ThearomaoffrankincensesummonsMichael,however
calling his name, particularly when desperate, may be812/901
sufficient. Call him with his invocation:
Michael to the right of me,
Michael to the left of me
Michael above me
Michael below me
Michael within me
Michael all around me
Michael,withyourflamingswordofcobaltbluepleasepro-
tect me today.
Herbal Protection
Gather dillweed, Saint John’s Wort, and vervain within
white handkerchiefs. Either tie the packets closed with blue
ribbon or create sachets using blue thread and hang these
strategicallythroughoutthehomeforspiritualandmagical
protection.
Hyacinth Antidote Spell
Carrying a hyacinth (jacinth) crystal gemstone allegedly
protects one from poison.
Iron Spells
Iron repels evil of all kind. Most malevolent spirits cannot
beartobeinitspresence.Inadditiontoprovidingprotection,
iron enhances and stimulates the growth of one’s personal813/901
magicpowers,sothatyouarestrongerandbetterabletopro-
tectyourself,requiringlessoutsidespiritualprotection.Iron
also invigorates general vitality and energy.
Iron Protection Spells
Iron provides protection 24 hours a day, whether you are
asleep or awake.
• Bend a used horseshoe nail into a ring
• Anironbraceletreinforcesthemagicalprotective
capacities of the hand
• String iron beads and wear around neck and
ankles
• For protection while you sleep, slip a knife or
horseshoe under your pillow
• If you prefer not to keep anything that hard in
bed,aswordorfireplacepokercanbekeptunder
the bed
• No need to keep anything in or under the bed:
sleepinginabedcraftedfromironcreatesanis-
land of safety, reinvigorating health, creativity,
and fertility while you sleep
Iron Spell: Spoken Word
The power of iron is so strong that even if you don’t have
any, just shouting out the word “iron” allegedly routs evil
spirits.814/901
Iron Spell: Simple
Ironworkers create intricate, complex amuletic designs for
fences and gates. Of course, professional talent, extensive
training, and skill are required. Simple spells can also be
verypowerful.Pow-Wowdrawsonpotenthouseholdmagic:
a safety pin serves as a protective amulet. Wear one dis-
creetly on your sleeve to repel dangers.
Living Boundary Spells
In fairy tales, witches’ cottages are surrounded by magical
gardens. A garden creates a living altar that is cultivated to
achieve your desired goals. A protective garden creates an
aura of safety around the perimeter of your home.
Living Boundary: Basic Protection
Garden
Maintainaprotectiveauraofsafetyaroundyourhome.In-
cludeasmanyofthefollowingaspossible:angelica,cactus,
clover,dill,elder,flax,gardenia,garlic,holly,juniper,mug-
wort, nettles, oregano, roses, rosemary, rowan, rue, Saint
John’s Wort, southernwood, thyme, vervain, wormwood,
and yarrow.815/901
Living Boundary: Circle of Trees
Growortransplantasmanyofthefollowingprotectivetrees
as possible: ash, bay laurel, birch, cedar, ceiba, hawthorn,
hazel, iroko, juniper, oak, olive, and rowan. Arrange the
trees in a circle, if possible.
Malicious Spirits Protection Spell
Shouldyouhearsomeonecallyournamewhennooneisvis-
iblypresent,andshouldyoufearthatthisisademonicploy
tolureyouintotrouble,takeadvantageoflow-levelspirits’
legendary low IQ: respond with a contradictory message.
The classic Russian answer is something like “Come again
yesterday,”butthemorecleverandcreativeyourresponse,
the more you’ll leave the spirits scratching their heads and
impotent to hurt you.
Mean Spirit Repelling
Thisspellisparticularlybeneficialfollowingbanishingspells
whenyoufearthatmalevolentspiritswillattempttore-visit
thesceneoftheircrimes.Thearomaofthispotionrepelshos-
tile, troublesome, malicious spirits and prevents their entry.
Placerottenapples,winegalls,vinegar,andsulfurina
cauldron. Add myrrh and red sandalwood and warm to a
simmer.816/901
New Year’s Protection Spell
This spell comes from Scandinavia; it is diametrically op-
posedtomanyChineseNewYear’sspellsthatinstructnotto
clean on New Year’s Day because you may accidentally
sweep all your luck away, leaving you none for the year
ahead. How you feel about cleaning will determine which
magical philosophy is most appropriate for you.
1. CleanthehousecompletelyonNewYear’sDay,re-
moving every speck of dust.
2. Carry the sweepings to a crossroads and discard
them.
3. This renders the home immune to bewitchment
and malevolent magic during the year to come.
Protection Bags
Simple Protection Bag
EntwinemugwortandSaintJohn’sWortandplacewithina
red bag. Hang over every door and window for powerful
magical, spiritual protection.
Personal Protection Bag
This protection spell may be cast for yourself or for another.817/901
1. Puttogetherabagofyourownoranotherperson’s
intimate items (hair, nail clippings, bits of fabric
cut from a garment soaked with sweat, etc.).
2. Place them within a charm bag.
3. Attachittothewallinaverydiscreetareabyham-
mering in an iron nail. Simultaneously invoke
blessings.
Protection Baths
Object Protection Bath
For empowering and protecting specific objects or ritual
tools:
1. Place marjoram, peppermint, rosemary, and sage
within a bowl.
2. Make a strong infusion by pouring boiling water
over them.
3. Sprinkle the infusion as needed or add the
strained,cooledliquidtoaspraybottleandapply
as needed.
Protection Bath: Basil
Thisspellrepelsmalevolentmagictargetedtowardyou,re-
pairsadamagedaura,andhelpserectapersonalprotective
shield.818/901
1. Make a strong infusion by pouring boiling water
over fresh basil leaves. Once it cools, strain the
leaves out and discard.
2. Bring the bowl of basil-infused water to the bath
orshower.Standnakedinthetuborshower.Dipa
clean white cloth (a handkerchief or hand towel)
intotheinfusionand,wipingdownwardsandout,
cleanse your body.
3. Repeat daily for nine days. After the final bath,
throwanyremainingwater(andmakesurethere
is some!) out the front door with an aggressive
motion.
4. If this isn’t possible toss liquid into a pot filled
with Earth. Remove it from your home and dis-
pose of it immediately, preferably at a crossroads.
Salt Spells
Althoughanyformofsaltprovidesintensespiritualandma-
gicalprotection,seasaltisbelievedmostpotent.Hoodootra-
dition favors kosher salt because it has been blessed. In a
pinch,anysaltmaybeusedalthoughthecloseritistoitsnat-
ural state, the less it has been processed and essentially
tampered with, the more magical protection and power salt
can provide.
Salt Bath: Basic
Add salt to the bath to simultaneously provide spiritual
cleansingaswellascreatingapowerfulpsychicshield.Fora819/901
quickfix,justtosshandfulsofseasalt,asmanyasdesired,
into a tub of running water. Stir to dissolve and soak.
Salt Scrub: Basic
Bath salts are added directly to the water; salt scrubs are
appliedwitheitheragentleoravigorouscircularmotionto
thebody.Theoilcausestheotheringredientstoclingtothe
body,evenafterrinsing.Thisisanextremelypowerfulway
to create a cleansing, protective shield.
1. Thebasicformulaisonecupofsalttoonehalfcup
of oil, however you may wish to play with these
proportions until you achieve a desired texture.
This produces a fairly substantial quantity: store
inanair-tightcontainersuchasamasonjar.Salt
scrubs will last indefinitely, providing water
doesn’t get into the container.
2. Add more oil if you’d like a gentler scrub. Finely
ground salt is less abrasive.
3. Castor oil is the most protective carrier oil and
should be added to the scrub, however it’s ex-
tremely thick and doesn’t always blend well. Add
othercarrieroilsandplaywithproportionsuntilit
pleases you.
Salt Spell Quick-fix Circle
Apotentquick-fixspell,particularlyvaluablewhenspiritual
danger suddenly threatens to overwhelm you. Cast a circle820/901
usingsaltorblacksalt.Sitwithinthecircleuntilyoufeelthat
it’s safe to come out.
Sapphire Spell
Sapphires allegedly serve as a protective talisman against
violence.
Silver Spell
Silver is perceived as a spiritually incorruptible metal that
radiatesanauraofprotection.Placeasmallpieceofrealsil-
ver under the hearth. Once upon a time a coin would have
been used, but once upon a time dimes were real silver. A
bead or charm would be very appropriate.
Spell-breaker
This ancient and simple spell breaks any impending en-
chantment: consciously chew on your left thumb.
Sulfur Spells
Sulfurprotectsagainstmalevolentmagicandrepelsevilentit-
ies.InNorthAfricanmagic,itissometimesconsideredequal
tosaltasaprotectoragainstevil.Sulfurisaprimaryingredi-
ent in exorcisms and banishing spells, where it is typically821/901
burned. This is traditional but not necessarily advisable: in-
haling sulfur fumes is potentially very irritating. However
thereareothermethodsofuse,particularlybeneficialforpro-
tective magic.
Sulfur Spell Eye of the Amulet
1. Makeapastebyaddingabitofgumacaciaorsim-
ilar to sulfur powder.
2. Stickalittlebitofthisyellowpasteintothecenter
ofanyamulettotransformitintoavehicleofpro-
tection.Thisisparticularlyeffectiveforhandamu-
lets or geometric-shaped amulets, such as tri-
anglesordiamonds.Althoughtheyarealreadypo-
tent,thesulfureffectivelybecomesthe“eye”ofthe
amulet, further activating and empowering it.
3. Pointtheeyeinthedirectionfromwhichdangeris
feared.
Sword of Protection Spell
Thissymbolicswordiscarriedtofendoffhurtfulwordsand
harmful actions.
1. Cut a piece of paper from a clean paper bag.
2. Draw a sword on it.
3. Place it within a leather pouch or metal amulet
bag,togetherwithapinchofcayenneorhabanero
pepper and a pinch of sulfur.822/901
Tiger Lily Spell
Tigerliliesserveasthebotanicalequivalentoftigers.Plant
them near the home to prevent the entry of mean spirits.
Witch Ball Hex-breaker
“Witch balls” are large, beautiful, iridescent glass balls, re-
semblingcoloredcrystalballsorgiganticChristmastreeor-
naments. They are traditionally hung from windows or
placedatoppedestalsinthegardentocatchandabsorbany
approachingcurses.Whetherthewitchballreversesthespell
issubjecttodebate;howeverit’sgenerallyacknowledgedto
shield and protect from malevolent bewitchment.
Arrange witch balls strategically around the property;
nearthefrontentranceandanyotherperceivedvulnerable
spots. (This is easy to implement as witch balls are so
attractive, non-magical observers will assume they are
merelygardenornaments.)Despitetheirornamentalvalue,
witch balls are magical tools. Magically cleanse them on a
regular schedule by bathing with mugwort-infused spring
water.
Witch’s Bottle Protection Spell
Glass,ceramic,stone,ormetalbottlesmaybeusedforthese
spells against hexes and for protection against malicious
spirits; don’t use plastic.823/901
1. Placethreepins,threeneedles,andthreenailsin-
side a bottle.
2. Fill the bottle with salt.
3. Addthreedropsofmenstrualbloodorprickyour
smallest left finger and let three drops of blood
flow into the bottle.
4. Seal the bottle securely and bury it under the
hearth or next to your home.
Yin-yang Protection Spell
Create a protective amulet with magic beans. Yin-yang
beansarethelargegrayseedsofthebonductree.Theyal-
legedly serve as the balance between male and female
energy.
String a pair of beans onto a cord, together with one
contraveneno bean, to provide spiritual protection. They
guard against spiritual and psychic danger. Allegedly, if
theyareforcedtodotheirjob,thecontravenenowillsplitin-
to four pieces along the cross that marks one side of this
black bean.
Spells to Protect
Against Enemies
ManyProtectionSpellstargetevilingeneral,regardlessfrom
where it derives. Sometimes the source of danger is very
clearly from another human. Spells to Protect Against824/901
Enemies take various approaches to the situation, from dis-
arming one’s enemy to transforming enmity into amity.
Alyssum Anger Management Spell
Offerasmallbouquetofalyssumtoonewhoresentsyouand
bearsyouhostilityandmalice.Disarmthem;literallyplace
the bouquet in their hands. This magical transaction al-
legedly cools off their anger toward you quickly.
Box of Chocolate Spell
Chocolateallegedlypossessesthepowertotransformenmity
into friendship. Make a peace offering with a box of fine
chocolate. This will only work, however, if the other party
will eat real chocolate, dark and bitter-sweet.
Cast Off Evil Oil
Cast off malevolent thoughts, intentions, and hexes from
those who resent you. (Although this is really a prevention
spell, it does possess a hex-breaking aspect.)
1. Blendasafetida,crumbledbayleaves,hyssop,rue,
and yarrow.
2. Add the botanicals to castor oil.
3. Soakcottonballsintheoilandleavetheminthe
vicinityoftheonewhohatesyou(intheofficeor
elsewhere). This is not a spell you can hide: the825/901
fragrance, depending onthequantity ofasafetida
used, can be very unpleasant; however it can be
cast anonymously if you’re discreet.
Convert an Enemy Spell
Fillasmallcharmbagwithcloves,oractuallyincorporate
theclovesintoaspicenecklace.Wearthecharmaroundyour
neck to inspire feelings of affection and friendship.
Melt Your Cold, Cold Heart Spell
A Pow-Wow spell to warm someone’s cold heart: place a
plate of snow or an icicle near a fire (fireplace, stove, or
candle)andwatchitmeltwhileenvisioningallthehostility
melting away too.
Put the Anger on Ice Spell
1. Write the angry person’s name on a slip of paper.
2. Dropthepaperintoasmall,unbreakablecontain-
er filled with water.
3. Seal the container shut. Keep it in your freezer.
If you have a lot of enemies, line them up in an ice cube tray.826/901
Rose Quartz Transformation Spell
Rosequartztransformsangerintolove,oratleastmildaf-
fection. Wear it. Give it as a gift to those who resent you.
Sweeten Your Heart Spell
To sweeten someone’s heart toward you:
1. Write your target’s name on a slip of white paper.
2. Put it into a small jar with a lid.
3. Cover the paper with honey and close the jar tight.
4. Place a small white candle on top of the lid and
burn.Unblocking Spells
InsomeversionsoftheSleepingBeautystory,thehand-
some prince would very much like to save Sleeping Beauty
fromherhundredyears’sleepbutisinitiallyunablebecause
theroadleadingtohercastleisobstructedwiththorns.The
princecan’tpassuntil,frustrated,hetakeshisswordandcuts
his own path. In other versions of the tale, his sword won’t
cut; he’s unable to pass through the thicket until powerful
fairies recognize his predicament and cut a road for him.
That’s exactly what unblocking or road-opening spells do.
When your life seems stagnant, when opportunities al-
waysseemtopeterout,whennoviablealternativesseemto
exist,whennoroadsopenforyou,youmayhavewhatisma-
gicallyknownasablockedcondition.Blockedconditionsstem
from a variety of causes:
• Blockages may result from insufficient magic
power:yourmagicalgastankisempty;therefore
you can’t proceed
• Blockages may be the result of a hex or curse.
HowevertheemphasiswithUnblockingSpellsis
emphaticallyonrepairingthesituationathand:
openingtheroads.There’slittleemphasisonwho
may have placed a hex or on returning it
• Blockagesmayresultbecauseyou’redesperately
inneedofmagicalcleansing:toomuchaccumu-
latednegativedebrisisweighingyoudown,pre-
venting mobility
• Blockages may result from spiritual causes828/901
Unblocking spells remove blocks, obstacles, and hurdles,
openingtheroadssothatyoucanproceedhappilywithlife.
Blockages are the opposite of a crossroads. Crossroads offer
possibilities of change, motion, and power. Blockages weigh
youdown,removingavenuesofopportunityandlimitingyou
to travel a path not of your choosing.
There are two aspects to unblocking spells:
• Specific spirits, magical owners of gates and
crossroads,controlaccessonallroads.Theyde-
termine who passes and who is blocked. These
road-openerspiritsmaybepetitionedtoremove
your particular blockage
• Other spells take advantage of the power of
botanicals and magical items to remove a block
Abre Camino Spells
“Abrecamino,”literally“roadopener”or“makeway,”isthe
name given to a plant (Trichilia havanensis) used in Latin
Americanmagictoopenblockedpaths.Carryanabrecamino
stick with you at all times to keep roads clear and remove
obstacles from your path.
Abre Camino: Road-Opener Spell
Bringanabrecaminosticktoacrossroads.Holditinyour
hands,andturnaroundtofaceeachdirectioninturn,focus-
ingonremoval ofallblocks from your pathways. Murmur829/901
affirmations,petitions,andprayersifdesired.Burnthestick
and leave coins at the crossroads.
Break Through Blockage Bath
Flower Essence Remedy
1. Thefloweressenceremedychestnutbud(Bach)is
indicated when you’re stuck, blocked, or trapped
in repetitive cycles with no transformation.
2. Initiateusebytakingasingleintensivebath:add
20-30dropsoftheremedytothebathbeforebed-
time. Pay attention to your dreams for clues on
resolving your blockage.
3. Do not add more than half a dozen drops to any
additional baths. Follow the manufacturer’s re-
commendationsforinternaladministrationorap-
ply topically.
Citrus Unblocking Bath
1. Collectasmanytypesofcitrusfruits,emphasizing
thesourones.Therecan’tbetoomuchfruitinthis
bath.
2. Quartereachfruit,squeezethejuiceintoatubof
bathwater then toss in the rind.
3. Add a bottle of orange blossom water or hydrosol.
4. Enter the bath, rub yourself with the fruit, envi-
sion your blocks cleansed away and then allow
yourselftoair-dry.(Dependingonthequantityof
fruit used, you may be sticky. Leave the fruit830/901
residueonforaslongaspossiblebeforeshowering
it off.)
Road-Opener Spells
Any powerful and sympathetic spirit can remove a block.
Howeverthereisagenreofspiritsknownas“roadopeners.”
Thesespiritsaresaidto“own”roads;thusplayingtheroleof
aspiritualgate-keepertheydeterminewhomaypassandwho
can’t,whoseroadwillbeeasyandwhosewillbeobstructed.
On the whole, these spirits possess a somewhat sardonic
sense of humor; they tend to be volatile tricksters. Their
stomping ground, the place to meet them, is invariably that
opposite of the blocked road, the crossroads.
Three Road Openers’ Super
Strength Unblocking Spell
To open one’s path and clear a major blockage, invoke
Elegba(Exu),Ogun,andMariaPadilhasimultaneously.This
offering is made at midnight at a crossroads.
1. Sprinkle the ground with anisette.
2. Laydownaredcloth;coveritwithablackcloth.
All offerings and candles should be placed on
thesecloths.Thetwomalespiritswillacceptgood
rum, over-proof rum, or cachaca. Maria Padilla
likesasmallbottleofanisetteoraglassofcham-
pagne served in a champagne flute. All three ap-
preciate fine cigars and cigarettes.831/901
3. Make an offering to Elegba/Exu of alcohol,
candles, and fine cigars or deluxe cigarettes.
4. MakeanofferingtoOgun.Givehimalcoholanda
cigar, and light a red or black candle inside a
cauldron.
5. Make an offering to Maria Padilha of red roses, red
candles, fine cigarettes, or cigarillos, and a
libation.
6. Talktothethreeofthemandtellthemwhatyou
need.
7. Backupsevenpacesbeforeyouturnaround;leave
via a circuitous route. Do not return to that spot
for at least seven days.
For the equivalent ofmagically dynamiting ablockage, re-
peat this spell at seven different crossroads all in one night.
Road-Opening Spell: Mojo Bag
This bag may need to be contained within a second bag to
keep the dirt from slipping out.
1. Gatherpinchesofdirtfromsevendifferentcross-
roads and place them in a red bag.
2. Addsalt,anoldkey,andpebblesornailsfoundon
or beside train tracks.
3. Carry it with you to keep all avenues open.
Road-Opening Spell: Oil
1. Start with a coconut oil and jojoba oil base.832/901
2. Addtruecoconutextract,groundallspice,pepper-
mint, and licorice (not the candy, the herb).
3. Thisoilmaybeaddedtothebathorusedtodress
unblocking candles.
Stimulate Change Spell
Tostimulatechange,movement,andtransformationgather
a handful of dirt from each of the following places:
The local police department, courthouse, or jail
The local fire department or blacksmith
A crossroads
A butchery’s shop
A place of higher education
You will need five handfuls in all. Place them all in a red
flannelbagtogetherwithaHighJohntheConquerorrootto
unblock your paths.
Unblock a Mind Spell
Sometimes what needs to be opened is someone’s mind, so
that that person will be willing to listen to you, to hear you.
1. Carveaskullcandlewiththenameandidentifying
informationofthetargetofthisspell.Choosethe
coloroftheskulltosuityourpurpose:redforro-
mance,greenforfinancialdiscussion,blackifthe
person is dense or is stubbornly refusing to833/901
consideryourposition.Whitemaybeusedforany
purpose.
2. Dress the candle with Command and Compel
Oil.Addanyotherformulaoilthatmatchesyour
needs.
3. Burn the candle.
IntensifythespellbydedicatingittoPapaLegba,Openerof
the Ways, Eliminator of Obstacles.
Unblock a Situation Spell
1. Charge a peridot, sardonyx, or quartz crystal.
2. Place it on an altar.
3. Focus your desires on the stone.
4. Carry it with you in a lucky charm bag.
5. Recharge it periodically on your altar.
Unblocking Spell
Get rid of blocks and bad luck:
1. Go through your home and premises looking for
extraneous sharp items: pins, tacks, anything
similar.
2. Place them in a jar or bottle.
3. Whenitisapproximatelyhalffull,takeitoutside
andburyit,preferablynotonyourproperty,butat
theleastattheabsolutefurthestedgeofyourland.
Don’t dig it up.Youth, Beauty, and
Longevity Spells
Beauty Spells
Acorn Youth and Beauty Spell
Threeacorns,especiallyifthey’refoundattachedtoonean-
other, preserve youth and enhance beauty. A gold or silver
charm depicting three acorns will work, too. Charge the
three acorns under the New Moon, and wear them inyour
hair.
Amorediscreetversion:chargethreeacornsunderthe
NewMoon.Wrapthemtogetherusingstrandsofyourhair
and carry them in a charm bag.
Aphrodite’s Beauty Spell
GoatsareamongAphrodite’ssacredcreatures.Soakviolets
in goat’s milk and wash your face with this for beauty.
Breast Enhancement Spell Harem
A Turkish harem formula:835/901
1. Pour boiling water over fenugreek seeds to make
an infusion.
2. When it cools, strain out the seeds.
3. Usetheliquidtobathethebreaststoallegedlyin-
crease bust size.
Egg Beauty Spell
Eggs are perceived as magical and powerful. Reserve the
water used to boil eggs; let it cool and bathe with it for
youth, vigor, and beauty.
Freya’s Youth Potion
CowslipsarewildpeoniesandaresaidtobeFreya’sfavorite
flowers,aswellasthoseofthefairies.Reputedlytheymagic-
ally transmit the beauty secrets of these powerful spirits.
1. Createaninfusion,althoughyoumayalsosubsti-
tute a hydrosol.
2. Boil water and pour it over the blossoms.
3. When the water cools, strain out the blossom.
4. Apply the potion to your face with a cotton ball.
5. Usetheremainderinthebathorelsewhereonthe
body.
6. You may also refrigerate the remainder for 24
hours.836/901
Ginseng Beauty Spell
Tiearedthreadaroundaginsengrootandcarryforadded
beauty and grace.
Helen of Troy Beauty Spell
Elecampane(Inulahelenium)wasnamedforHelenofTroy.
She allegedly carried it away with her when she fled with
Paris. Since then, it’s believed to bestow a little of her es-
sence. Carry elecampane root for enhanced beauty, grace,
charm, and confidence.
Lilac Dew Spell
Bathe in lilac dew on May Day for a year of beauty.
Lunar Beauty Bath
The planet of magic, romance, and feminine power, the
moon offers the gift of beauty in this Romany spell:
1. Stand naked in the light of the Full Moon.
2. Gothroughthemotionsofbathinginmoonbeams.
Visualize the moonbeams entering you and em-
powering you. Absorb their beauty.837/901
3. Petition the moon for assistance with whatever
troubles you: weight loss, hair growth, perceived
imperfections.
4. Now watch for an immediate response from the
moon: no change is a positive response; if the
moonbrightens,thisisanextremelyencouraging
sign.Asuddendarkeningoracloudpassingover
the moon indicates that you should anticipate
challenges. Reconsider your request. Work on it
until the next Full Moon.
5. Repeat as needed.
Use this ritual for romance and renewed fertility too.
Seven Flowers Bath
AChineseformulatoenhancebeauty,vitality,andsensual-
ity: more important, this fragrant bath makes you happy
with yourself.
Thesevenflowersare:rose,jasmine,peony,orchid,lo-
tus,magnolia,andchrysanthemum.Addcopiousquantities
offlowerpetalstoyourbath.Watchoutforflorist’sflowers,
which are usually heavily laden with pesticides. Substitute
home-grown flowers where possible.
Fruit tree blossoms may be substituted for flowers.
Peach and plum trees are considered especially auspicious.
Varythecolors.Ifthefragranceisnotintense,addessential
oils until it suits you.838/901
Hair Growth Spells
Anti-baldness Spell Magic Potion
Ifyouhappentohaveaccesstodistillingequipment,distillli-
quor from human hair. Add honey and drink.
Anti-baldness Spell Midsummer’s
Dew
Dew collected on Midsummer’s morning prevents baldness.
Collect and apply where needed.
Anti-baldness Spell Onion
An old Anglo-Saxon remedy for baldness: cut an onion in
half and rub the half onion vigorously over your exposed
scalp, twice daily, morning and evening. If you have too
muchhair,juiceanonionandblendthejuicewithashotof
vodkaandatablespoonofhoney.Massagethismixtureinto
your scalp, leave it for thirty minutes, then rinse it out of
your hair.839/901
Facial Hair Spell Watermelon
AMoroccanremedytoencouragemalefacialhair:rubyour
chin daily with watermelon.
Hair Growth Spell: New Moon
To promote hair growth, particularly after hair-loss:
1. ThreedaysaftertheSpringEquinox,gouponthe
roof (or similar).
2. Smear your hair with a mixture of oil and henna
(this can be neutral-colored henna).
3. Combitoutandtalktothemoon.Igaveyoumy
hair Now Moon, give me yours.
4. Repeat every third day during this lunar month,
until the Dark Moon.
Yarrow Hair Growth Spell
Bathe your head with an infusion of yarrow to magically
forestall hair loss.
Weight Loss Spells
Spellstoaffectweightworkwhentheycomplementmorecon-
ventional methods (exercise, nutrition); they don’t replace840/901
them.Inotherwords,burningaweight-losscandlefollowed
by eating a large tub of ice cream is only fooling yourself.
Weight Loss Spell: Candle
Thisspellmaybeusedforweightlossorforre-shapingone’s
silhouette.
1. Obtainanakedhumanfigurecandletorepresent
you.
2. With a pin scratch lines into the wax to demon-
strate where reduction or re-shaping is needed,
just as if you were a tailor making adjustments.
3. Dress the candle with a Commanding Oil and
charge it with its mission.
4. Burn the candle for fifteen minutes daily. In
betweenburnings,useacraft-knifetochipoffwax
to reflect your accomplishments and goals.
Weight Loss Spell: Gem Therapy
Wearmoonstoneortopaztoencourageweightlossortosta-
bilizeweightasneeded.Accordingtomoderngemtherapy,
these stones regulate metabolism.841/901
Weight Loss Spell: Milk Bath
Coordinate this spell with a waning moon. Gently warm a
cartonofmilkandbringittotheshower.Pouritoveryour
head while affirming to grow thinner like the moon.
Longevity Spells
Alchemiststhroughtheagesstrivedtocreatethephilosoph-
er’sstone,asubstancethatwouldenablethemtotransmute
basemetalsintogold.Kingssponsoredalchemists’laborator-
ies and their expensive experiments, dreaming of boundless
wealth. However the philosopher’s stone possessed another
pricelessattribute:itallegedlybestowedextendedlongevityto
thepointofimmortalitytoitsowner.Rumorsspreadthatcer-
tain alchemists, such as the Frenchman Nicholas Flamel
(born c.1330, died ?), had actually created the philosopher’s
stone. Nicholas Flamel still makes the occasional public
appearance.
Western alchemy was born in Alexandria, Egypt and
broughttoEuropebytheMoors.Anotheralchemicalbranch
developedindependentlyinChina:therethequestwasmore
purely focused on longevity, rather than wealth.
Aaron’s Rod Longevity Spell
Aaron’s rod is the botanical nickname given to golden rod
andmullein.Useeitherplantinthisspell.Createaninfusion842/901
bypouringboilingwateroverAaron’srod.Addthestrained
liquid to a bath to magically enhance longevity.
Amaranth Longevity Spell
Amaranth encourages longevity in the face of illness and
obstacles. Carry it in a conjure bag.
Aroma Longevity Spell
Warm essential oils of cedarwood, chamomile, and juniper
in an aroma burner. Inhale deeply to encourage longevity.
Beauty Longevity Spell
Likefinewines,certainfragrancesgrowmorebeautifulwith
age: anoint orrisroot with a drop of ylang ylang and/or
patchoulioilandcarrywithyouinaredsilkbagsothatyou
too will only improve with age.
Emeralds are Forever Longevity
Spell
Emeralds allegedly inhibit decay: wear them to preserve
youryouthfulness.Ifyoudon’thaveaccesstorealemeralds,
bathe in emerald gemstone essence to receive magical
benefits.843/901
Gingko Longevity Spell
Carvegingkowoodintoanauspiciousshapeandcarryitin
anamuletbag.(If“auspicious”leavesyoudrawingablank,
an ankh is always advantageous for longevity.)
Honeysuckle Longevity Spell
Surround yourself with living honeysuckle to encourage
longevity.
Jade Gemstone Essence
Allegedly powdering and consuming green jade enhances
longevity.Thismaynotbesuchagoodideaforavarietyof
reasons;however,jadegemstoneessencemayhaveasimilar
(buthealthier)effect.Followthemanufacturer’sinstructions
for internal administration or add the essence to the bath.
Long-life Noodles
Asmagicalinsurance,onyourbirthdayeatabowlof“Long-
life Noodles,” extra thin, extra long noodles. Be sure not to
break any of the noodles while eating; slurp them up instead!844/901
Peachwood Longevity Spell
TheancientChinesespiritHsiWangMu,theQueenMother
oftheWest,ownsamagicalgardencontainingthepeaches
ofimmortality.TheChineseLordofLongevityalsocarriesa
peach.Ordinarypeachesmaynotgrantlifeeverlasting,but
theyaremagically associated withlongevity. Carrypeach-
wood or a dried peach kernel to magically lengthen one’s
lifespan.
Shangri-La Incense
AccordingtothelegendofShangri-La,therearehiddenval-
leysintheHimalayawherelifeandyoutharemagicallyex-
tendedtothepointofimmortality—providedyouneverleave
Shangri-La. The following incense blend magically trans-
portsyouthereandmagicallyofferssimilareffects,atleast
temporarily.Blendspikenard,rhododendron, andgalangal
root and burn, wafting the fragrance as desired.
Tansy Longevity Spell
Tansyallegedlyincreasesthelifespanwhenusedmagically.
(Itisapowerfulherbandisnotsafeforpregnantwomenor
manyotherstoconsume.)Wearorcarrytansyinanamulet
bag.845/901
Vervain
Vervain allegedly confers immortality. Make strong infu-
sionsbypouringboilingwaterovertheherbandaddingitto
the bath.
Spells for Youth
Angel’s Water Youth Spell
Not all versions of Angel’s Water are suitable for con-
sumption.Createyourownorcheckingredientsverycare-
fullyforsafety’ssake.DrinkaglassofAngel’sWaterevery
three days to remain eternally youthful.
Rosemary Youth Spells
AccordingtoEuropeantradition,oldagemaybekeptatbay
by frequently inhaling the scent of rosemary.
Youth Dew May Day Spell
Foreternalyouthandbeauty,riseatdawnonMayDayand
roll naked in the dew.Formulary
Charged Waters
Charged waters are charged with magical power and
intentions.
Not all charged waters are really waters. Some are
actually alcohol-based formulas, recalling that the roots of
perfumeryandliqueurslieentangledinmagicpotions,brews,
andphilters.(Philtersaredrinks;althoughsomepotionsare
consumed,manyformulasareforexternaluseonly.)“Water”
must be understood in the context of perfume designations,
such as eau de Cologne (“water of Cologne”) or of alcoholic
beverageslikeaquavitorwhiskey(whosenamederivesfrom
the Gaelic for “water of life”).
The alcohol typically recommended as a base is vodka,
not because it may beconsumed butbecause ofits minimal
scent.Avoidwhatiscommonlycalled“rubbingalcohol;”the
typicallystrong,unpleasantaromawillinterferewiththatof
the formula.
Angel’s Water or Angel Water
The term “Angel Water” may refer either to Jordan River
Water,ortoaneighteenth-centurylovepotion.This,themost
popularversionofAngelWaterandtheoneindicatedinthis
book,beganasasixteenth-centurycomplexionremedybefore847/901
evolving into a love potion and a popular aphrodisiac 200
years later. Its name may derive from those angels who se-
ducedthe“daughtersofman”withmagiclessonsintheBook
of Genesis.
Thecrucialingredient,theonethatcannotbereplacedif
this is to be considered true Angel Water, is myrtle, a small
treenativetoNorthAfricaandtheMediterraneancoast,con-
sidered sacred to Aphrodite, whose name inspired the term
“aphrodisiac.”
Inlegend,whenAphroditefirstemergesnakedfromthe
sea, she is clothed in myrtle leaves.
The basic formula consists of:
Myrtle
Orange blossoms (Neroli)
Rose
Myrtleisthepredominantmaterial.Itissubstantiallylessex-
pensivethantheotheringredients.ManyversionsofAngel’s
Water contain only myrtle. The terms “Myrtle Water” or
“Water of Venus” is sometimes used synonymously for An-
gel’s Water.
The simplest method of creation is via hydrosols. This
may be best if Angel’s Water is to serve as a philter.
Homemade floral waters may also be used, as well as infu-
sions of fresh and dried leaves and flowers. Home-grown
roses may be preferable to those of florists because of the
massive amounts of pesticides used on commercially grown
roses.Allthebasicingredientsareavailableintheformofes-
sential oils
Angel’s Water is typically used externally:
• Addtoabath:allegedlythegreaterthequantities
of Angel’s Water, the greater the erotic impact848/901
• Blend with alcohol to create a liniment for pur-
poses of massage: administered this way, (and
presumablyifit’sagoodmassage)Angel’sWater
reputedly inspires erotic thoughts in even the
coldest woman
• Angel’sWatermayalsobeusedasalovepotion,
in which case make sure that all materials are
safe for consumption
Myrtle-basedAngel’sWaterwasusedthroughoutEuropeand
theBritishIsles.ThereisalsoaSpanishformula,usedforro-
manticandcleansingspells.Thisversion’sbasicformulacon-
sists of angelica, lavender, rose, and trefoil.
Bay Rum
Technicallythe“bay”inbayrumdoesnotrefertofamiliarbay
laurelleaves,astapleofsomanymagicspells,buttotheber-
ries of the Caribbean tree, Jamaica bayberry, also known as
black or wild cinnamon.
If you purchase bay rum manufactured in Bermuda or
theCaribbean,youmayreceivetheoriginalformula.Ifmanu-
facturedelsewhere,youwillmostlikelybepurchasingafor-
mula based on bay laurel. Jamaica bayberry does not grow
outside the Caribbean and Bermuda; people outside the re-
gion are not familiar with the botanical and so assume that
anyreferencetobaymustindicatebaylaurel.Baylaurelisa
plant with profound magic powers and the formula based
upon it is potent, although not necessarily for the same
purposes:849/901
• Theoriginalbayrumformula(bayberry)isused
for luck, gambling, healing, and cleansing spells
• Thebay laurel-derived formula maybeused for
healing and cleansing, and to enhance divination
The true substitute for Jamaica bayberry is not bay laurel
leavesbutallspiceberries,acloserelativewithsimilarmagic
properties.However,Jamaicabayberryisavailableasanes-
sentialoil,andatruebayrumiseasilycreatedfromessential
oils.
True Bay Rum
Essential oil of Jamaica bayberry
Essential oil of petitgrain
Essential oil of allspice
Essential oil of cardamom
Essential oil of cloves
1. Dilutetheessentialoilsinfinedarkrumanddis-
tilled water.
2. Althoughscent-freealcoholisusuallyrecommen-
ded,bayrumistheexceptiontotherule.Rum,a
liquor used in many spells, enhances bay rum’s
magicalproperties.Itsscentisconsideredintegral
to the formula: select the most fragrant rum
possible.
3. Jamaica bayberry is the predominant ingredient.
Its presence and fragrance should dominate the
blend.850/901
4. If you have access to Jamaica bayberries, dried
botanicals may be substituted for essential oils.
Substitute orange zest for petitgrain.
Bay Leaf-Based Bay Rum
Crushed bay laurel leaves
Ground allspice berries
Ground cardamom
Ground cinnamon
Ground cloves
1. Addthedryingredientstoonepint(halfaliter)of
fine dark Caribbean rum.
2. Shake it and let it sit for a week.
3. Strain out the solid ingredients.
4. Placesomenewallspiceberriesorawholebayleaf
in the bottle.
Carmelite Water
ThisformulawasfirstcreatedforKingCharlesVofFrancein
1379 by the Carmelite Sisters. Its key ingredient, the herb
melissa, also known as lemon balm, is another plant closely
identified with Aphrodite. Melissa means “bee.” Aphrodite’s
priestesses of love were known as bees and according to le-
gend, living honeybees, female worker bees supremely de-
votedtotheirqueen,arethereturningsoulsofAphrodite’sno
less devoted servants. Melissa is a common garden plant; if851/901
yougrowit,theconnectiontobeesbecomesveryclear:bees
love it and flock to its blossoms.
Melissa is the crucial ingredient in Carmelite Water; its
presence, fragrance, and lemony flavor should predominate.
Historically, Carmelite Water was a distilled liquor and
shouldyouhaveaccesstodistillingequipment,itmaybere-
produced as such.
Basic Carmelite Water
Three tablespoons of chopped melissa (lemon
balm)
Three tablespoons of chopped angelica root
One tablespoon of cloves
One half teaspoon of coriander seeds
One whole nutmeg
One stick of cinnamon
1. Add the above to four ounces (125 ml) of vodka,
along with the juice from one lemon.
2. Allow it to steep for at least seven days, shaking
the bottle once daily.
3. Strain and enjoy.
Simpler, quicker, albeit even less authentic versions exist:
• Add tincture of melissa to a glass of vodka
• Blend melissa hydrosol with white wine852/901
Carmelite Tea
For those who eschew alcohol:
1. Roughly chop fresh melissa/lemon balm.
2. Placeasmallhandfulintoamugandaddacinna-
monstick,fivecloves,andonequarterteaspoonof
coriander seeds.
3. Make a strong infusion by pouring boiling water
over the botanicals.
4. Let it steep for at least five minutes, strain and
drink.
Carmelitewaterwasoriginallyintendedforhealingpurposes
and may be taken internally. Make sure all ingredients are
safeforconsumption.Atypicaldoseisthesizeofawineglass,
consumed with or after dinner. The pioneering physician
Paracelsus vouched for its beneficial cardiac claims.
BatheinCarmeliteWatertofacilitatethedreamprocess.
Itallegedlystimulatesfun,happydreams.CarmeliteWateris
afavoritePow-Wowpotiontocureheadaches,protectagainst
poison, break hexes, and as an elixir of longevity.
Damnation Water
TheantithesisofHolyWater,DamnationWaterisfrequently
usedformalevolentpurposes,butsometimesalsoforprotect-
ive spells.
Grind asafetida, sulfur, and the ashes of palm leaves
blessedonPalmSundayintoapowder.Addthistoabaseof
whichever Holy Water formula you prefer.853/901
Elijah the Prophet Water
Although this is known as Elijah the Prophet Water, it has
littletodowiththebiblicalprophet.InRussiantradition,Eli-
jahissyncretizedtothethunderspirit,Perun.Hisfeastdays
areJuly20thandJuly30th,knownas“thunderdays.”Rain
falling on these days is believed to have tremendous thera-
peuticandmagicalvalue.Bottleit,refrigerateit,andreserve
for magical emergency. Elijah the Prophet Water protects
against the Evil Eye, general serious illness, and malevolent
magic.
Florida Water
Florida Water was originally marketed as the American ver-
sion of the original eau de Cologne and should have an at-
tractive, refreshing, light, citrus-rosemary fragrance. Florida
Water,however,hasalsodevelopedintosomethingofameta-
physical staple among the Vodou/Santeria communities, as
wellasthemanyinfluencedbythem.Itisanintenselypower-
ful spiritual cleanser and protective agent.
Florida Water may be the only charged water whose
nameiscopyrighted.Itisofficiallymanufacturedandsoldby
theMurrayandLanmanCompany,andtheirsisanexcellent,
inexpensiveproduct,easilyavailableinmarketsthatcatertoa
Caribbeanclientele.However,therearethousandsofversions
of homemade Florida Water, and many practitioners pride
themselvesontheirhomerecipes.Herearetwoslightlydiffer-
ent versions.854/901
Florida Water (1)
Two cups of vodka or other alcohol
Two tablespoons rose hydrosol
Sixteen drops essential oil of bergamot
Twelve drops essential oil of lavender
Six drops essential oil of may chang
Three drops essential oil of rosemary
Two drops essential oil of jasmine
Two drops rose attar
Florida Water (2)
Two cups vodka or other alcohol
Two tablespoons orange flower water or hydrosol
One tablespoon turmeric powder
One quarter teaspoon finely ground orrisroot
Twelve drops essential oil of bergamot
Twelve drops essential oil of lavender
Six drops essential oil of may chang
Three drops essential oil of rosemary
Two drops rose attar
Two drops neroli
Shake this second formula vigorously to distribute the
powder.
Florida Water may be added to virtually any cleansing
bathorfloorwashformulaasanaddedenhancement.Itisfor
external use only.855/901
Flower Waters
Variousflowerwatersareusedinavarietyofspells,mostes-
pecially rose water. Although certain spells specifically de-
mandflowerwater,thesewatersmayalsobesubstitutedfor
regularwaterinmanyotherspellsandformulas,particularly
thoseforromanticorhealingpurposes,andinmagicalinkor
incense formulas, or for spells that involve dissolving gum
resins such as gum acacia.
Rosewaterandorangeblossomwaterarefrequentaddi-
tions to Indian, North African, and Middle Eastern cuisine
andareveryeasily,andofteninexpensively,purchasedfrom
specialistvendors.Thequalityofpre-packagedflowerwaters
iserratic,however;someareexcellent,othersbearlittleifany
trace of the flower. Fine hydrosols, once rare but becoming
more popular by the day, may be the finest source of true
flowerwaters.Theymayeasilybemadeforoneself,providing
onehasfreshflowers.Ingeneral,depending uponwhatone
wishestodowiththeflowerwater,it’swisetoavoidflorists’
flowersbecausetheytendtobeheavilyladenwithpesticides,
which may then be concentrated in the flower water.
Rose/Flower Water: Method 1
1. Remove the petals from a few fresh roses, place
theminasmallpot,andcoverwithapproximately
a quarter of an inch of spring water.
2. Simmer gently until a visual change is observed:
the petals will become limp and pallid. (If in
doubt, a minute longer may be preferable to a
minute less.)856/901
3. Strainandallowtheliquidtocool.Ifnotusedim-
mediately, refrigerate any left over.
This formula may also be used to create any type of fresh
flower water—orange blossom or jasmine, for in-
stance—providing the flowers are not poisonous or toxic.
Flower Water: Method 2
Thismethodissubstantiallylonger,althoughitisalsoeasier
thanthemethodsuggestedabove.Novigilantobservationis
required.Itissuitableforcreatinglavenderwateraswellas
any other flower water.
1. Place petals or blossoms within a mason jar.
2. Cover with boiling water and allow to sit
overnight.
3. Strain out the botanical material; if not used im-
mediately, the remainder should be refrigerated.
Lavender Water
The term “lavender water” frequently indicates not a fresh
flowerwaterbut,rather,steam-distilledlavenderblossoms,as
first created by Hildegard of Bingen in the twelfth century,
hence hydrosols, themselves the product of distillation, are
truly the appropriate choice. However a semblance of a dis-
tilled water may also be created easily in one’s kitchen.
Despite lavender water’s associations with the saintly
Hildegard,itearneditsmagicalreputationasapotionfavored
by prostitutes. Lavender water, worn on the body, allegedly857/901
attracts sexual interest from either gender while simultan-
eously sharpening the wits of the wearer.
Two cups of distilled water
Twoounces(100ml)ofvodkaorotherminimally
scented alcohol
Approximately 12–20 drops of essential oil of
lavender
For external use only.
Four Thieves Vinegar
The origins of this legendary formula lie in plague-ridden
Europe.Manyvariationsonthelegendexist:thesceneofthe
crime variously takes place in London, Marseilles, or some-
whereinItaly.Thesituationmayhavetakenplaceasfarback
as the time of the Crusades or as recently as the eighteenth
century.Thebasictale,however,remainsthesame.Infectious
epidemic wracked the land. People were dying, horribly, in
greatnumbers.Quarantinewasbrutallyenforced.Intheface
of this hardship and tragedy, a gang of four thieves ran
rampant,breakingintoquarantinedhouses,evenrobbingthe
dead.Peoplewereoutragedbutalsointrigued:howdidthese
thieves survive exposure to infection to steal and steal again?
Apricewasplacedonthethieves’headsandeventually
theywerecaughtandsentenced todeath.Theynegotiated a
trade:theirsecretformulaforareprieveandone-wayticket
outoftown.Eversince,FourThievesVinegarhasbeentouted
for its ability to drive away danger and rescue its user from
sure disaster.858/901
FourThievesVinegararrivedinNewOrleans,transpor-
tedbyeitherFrenchorItalianimmigrants,orperhapsbythe
wanderingthievesthemselves.InNewOrleans,itwasadop-
ted by the Voodoo and Hoodoo communities, who put Four
Thieves’illness-banishingpowerstootheruse:itisacrucial
component of many banishing and commanding spells.
Four Thieves Vinegar
1. Obtain the best possible red wine or apple cider
vinegar.
2. Peel and crush garlic cloves and add them to the
vinegar. You cannot have too much garlic, espe-
ciallyifyouplantouseFourThievesforitshealing
and immunity-boosting properties.
3. Traditionally, each thief contributed one ingredi-
ent.Chooseoneofthefollowingtorepresenteach
thief, for a total of four additional ingredients:
blackpepper,wholecayenneorotherchilipepper,
coriander, lavender, mint, rosemary, rue, sage,
thyme, or wormwood.
4. Allowthistositforfourdays,shakingoncedaily,
before using.
Ifyouareusingfreshherbs,thereisatendencyforthegarlic
totakeontheirgreencolor.Thisisn’tharmfulbutmanycon-
siderit“unsightly.”Topreventthis,boilthegarlicinthevin-
egar and allow it to cool before adding the other ingredients.859/901
Glory Water
GloryWaterisintendedtoprovideyouwithglory.It’susedin
spells cast for success and good fortune. Its key ingredient,
theonewithoutwhichitisnolongerGloryWater,isorange
blossom water.
Orange blossom water or neroli hydrosol
Frankincense resin or essential oil of
frankincense
Essential oil of bergamot
Holy Water
Althoughmanyassumethattheterm“HolyWater”indicates
church-blessed water only, this is an oversimplification of a
complexconcept.TheRomanCatholicChurchdidnotinvent
theconceptofHolyWaterbutadopteditfromearlierPagan
use.VariousPaganshrinespossessedvirtuallyidenticalHoly
Waterfonts.HolyWaterisacrucialcomponentofmanyma-
gical,religious,andspiritualtraditions,althoughwhatconsti-
tutes Holy Water and how it’s made varies greatly.
Holy Water may refer to any one of a variety of products:
• Jordan River Water
• Church-blessed water
• AccordingtoBritishfolktradition,rainfallingon
Holy Thursday—Ascension Day—may be
gatheredandusedasHolyWater.Anyotherday
heldsacredtothespell-castermaybesubstituted:860/901
Summer Solstice, May Eve, New Year’s Day,
Samhain, your birthday, a saint’s day
• Holy Water may also be made via astrological
correspondence. Some believe that waters syn-
chronizedwithalunareclipseoraFullMoonare
holy and charged with extra magic power
• BalinesetraditionusesavarietyofHolyWaters.
Thesemayincludethewaterfoundwithinunripe
coconutsoryoungbamboo.Oceanwaterissome-
times used as well
• Modern Wicca has evolved the notion of Holy
Water. Various formulas exist: at its simplest,
Witch’sHolyWaterisspringwaterwithsaltad-
ded. Other covens have personal recipes, includ-
inginfusedherbs(rosemary,thyme,andvervain
are particularly popular) or crystals. Designate
your own
• Pow-Wow also features various recipes but the
mainstay is water with salt and vervain added.
ChristianPow-Wowsmaychoosechurch-blessed
waters instead
As used in this book, “Holy Water” indicates any
water that is held sacred or has special signific-
ance for the spell-caster. This may be water from
a shrine dedicated to a deity or water from a sac-
red spring. It may be water from the tap of your
favorite restaurant. If this concept holds no
meaning for you, if all water is the same, then
simply substitute pure spring water wherever a
spell indicates Holy Water.861/901
Holy Water is used for:
• Cleansing and purification, both for individual
bathing and for space-cleansing (sprinkle in
corners)
• Altar cleansing and blessing
• Healing spells. Holy Water is also believed cap-
ableofmagicallytransmittingphysicalrelief,es-
pecially for headaches and tension. Use in com-
presses and massage
• Cleansing and empowering materials and tools:
anointrootsandcrystalsorletrootsandminer-
als soak in Holy Water
• Exorcism and banishing spells
BalineseHolyWater,church-blessedHolyWaterandWiccan
HolyWater(amongothers)areconsecratedviasacredritual:
the ritual activates the water. Other magical traditions con-
sider that the sacred, magical power of Holy Water is such
that no further ritual or consecration is needed and may in
fact be interference. Obtaining Holy Water may thus be as
simpleasgatheringrainwateroraddingseasalttospringwa-
ter. Complex rituals may also be designed; choose from
among the following ritual elements or adapt and embellish
as desired:
Charging Holy Water
1. Collect rainwater, ideally within a stone vessel.
2. Prepare yourself prior to preparing the water:
batheinFieryWallofProtection,Dragon’sBlood,862/901
or at least with lots of salt, while reciting psalms
and/or sacred verses.
3. Preparethewatersky-clad(nude)orincleanritu-
al clothing. Where ritual clothing is not used,
fresh, clean clothing, preferably white and made
from natural fabrics is favored.
4. Ladle water into a glass or crystal bowl.
5. Place it between two white candles.
6. Light incense first (frankincense, copal, benzoin,
and/or white sage) and then the candles.
7. Pass the bowl of water through the incense smoke.
8. Visualizewhyyou’repreparingthiswater.Visual-
ize the results this water will bring.
9. Return the bowl to its place between the candles
and leave everything in place until the candles
burn out.
10. Bottle the water.
Indigo Water
Untiltheadventofsyntheticdyesinthenineteenthcentury,
indigo was a precious commodity, the botanical source of a
beautiful,vividbluedye.BlueisthecolorthatrepelstheEvil
Eyeandconfersspiritualprotection.Withthepossibleexcep-
tionofthecolorred,nocolorismorestronglyidentifiedwith
protectivemagicthanblue.Henceindigohadpowerfulmagic-
al as well as aesthetic value.
Originally native to India, indigo migrated to ancient
Egypt,Greece,andtheYorubakingdomsofwhatisnowmod-
ernNigeria,whereitwasstronglyidentifiedwiththepowerful
female orishas Yemaya and, especially, Oshun.863/901
InmodernAfrica,indigoisespeciallyidentifiedwiththe
Tuareg, the traditionally nomadic people of the Sahara
Desert. The Tuareg are known as the “blue people” because
the indigo used to dye their robes its characteristic shade
bleeds onto their skin, dying it. This is not perceived as
merelyanaccidentalhazardbutasawelcomeeffect,because
the protective qualities of the indigo are now transferred to
the skin.
BroughttoAmericanandWestIndianplantationsinthe
seventeenthcentury,thedyewasproducedforexport.Extrac-
tedviaalengthy,complicated,tedious,andmalodorouspro-
cess,indigowasonlymadeprofitablebytheexistenceofslave
labor.Theslaves,manyofwhomcamefromYorubalandand
its vicinity, also introduced indigo’s magical uses. Indigo
Water is used:
• To empower charms, tools, and talismans
• To enhance and empower the aura, through
bathing
• For spiritual protection, to ward off evil
• For cleansing spells
Theendofslaveryinthenineteenthcentury,coincidingwith
thedevelopmentofsyntheticdyes,madetrueindigorare.Al-
thoughtherearesubstitutes,noneofthempossessthemagic
power of true indigo.
Trueindigowaterismerelyablendofindigoandwater.
The most accessible source may be anil, a West Indian and
South American variation. Mexican anil is sometimes mar-
ketedintheformofsmall,vividblueballs.Dissolveinwater
tocreateIndigoWaterorkeeptheballwholeforuseasapro-
tectiveamulet.Usedthisway,anilballsareapopularingredi-
ent in Mexican Santeria mojo bags.864/901
Laundry bluing or blue food coloring may substitute in
anyspellthatcallsforIndigoWater,withtheunderstanding
thatthepowerismuchreduced.However,donotsubstitute
bluestone,alsoknownasbluevitriolorRomanvitriol.Blue-
stoneiscoppersulfate,anaturallyoccurringsubstancewhich
is truly a lovely shade of blue but, like those colorful
Amazoniantree-frogs,isalsoverytoxic.Ithasbeenusedasa
pesticide,nowbannedinmanyplaces,butwasonceeasilyob-
tainable,especiallyforrural,agriculturalpeople.Becauseitis
blue and was available, it’s frequently cited in folk magic
spells but is dangerous and should not be used.
Marie Laveau Water
This formula is attributed to Marie Laveau, the renowned
Queen of New Orleans Voodoo. Born in 1792, Marie Laveau
transformedVoodoofromasurreptitiousandpersecutedcult
intoanorganized,respected(orfeared),establishedtradition.
Followingherdeath,shehasachievedunofficialsaintstatus
andcontinuestoperformmiraclesfromhergraveatNewOr-
leans’s St. Louis Cemetery Number One.
ThisformulaissometimesmarketedasHolyWateroras
Blessing Water. It may substitute in any spell that calls for
either one:
One cup rain water
One cup spring water
One cup rose water or hydrosol
One cup Holy Water
One cup lavender water, lavender hydrosol or
twenty drops of essential oil of lavender865/901
Marie Laveau Water is used for:
• Psychic enhancement
• Protection
• Aura cleansing
• Cleansing spells
Notre Dame Water
Althoughthisisthenameofaspecificformula,blessedwater
from the Cathedral of Notre Dame may be substituted. The
predominantingredientinNotreDameWater,withoutwhich
it cannot be considered true Notre Dame formula water, is
white roses.
The basic formula is:
Holy Water
White rose hydrosol
Orange hydrosol
Violet hydrosol
Itmaybenecessarytosubstitutevioletabsoluteforviolethy-
drosol,ortoobtainyourownvioletfragranceviatheinfusion
orenfleurageprocess.Violetisanotoriouslydifficultandex-
pensive scent to extract. Most of what is available commer-
cially is synthetic.
AsimplerversionofNotreDameWatermaybemadeby
adding essential oil of white roses or white rose hydrosol to
spring water.
Notre Dame Water is used for:866/901
• Happyhomespells,topromotepeace,calm,and
serenity
• Cleansing spells
• Spells to summon spirits
• Uncrossing baths and spells
Peace Water
This formula is designed to bring serenity to a troubled
household.Aspeace issoelusive, itshouldcome asnosur-
prisethatPeaceWaterismuchmoredifficulttocreatethan,
say, War Water. It takes a skilled blender to concoct true
PeaceWateranditmaybetheoneformulayouarebetteroff
purchasingthanmakingbyhand.However,youneedtoun-
derstand the product in order to obtain or create the real
thing.
TruePeaceWaterisvisiblyidentifiable.Thereshouldbe
threedistinctlayers:twolightblueliquidswithaclearlayerin
between. (Some versions only use two layers: one blue, one
clear.)
The theory behind Peace Water stems from the biblical
phraseregardingspreadingoilovertroubledwaters.Thenat-
uralpropensityforoilandwatertoseparatecreatesthelay-
ers. At its best, Peace Water is aesthetically a very beautiful
product,withthelightbluecolorevokingasenseofserenity.
ThemerevisualpresenceoffinePeaceWaterisbelievedma-
gically able to maintain a peaceful, tranquil atmosphere.
• Blue layers may be made with Indigo Water or
with any of the blue components used to create
Indigo Water867/901
• The clear layer may be made with Holy Water,
Rose of Jericho Water, or Notre Dame Water
• The tricky part is layering the oil and water so
that the three layers remain distinct
PeaceWaterisusedinavarietyofhouseblessing,cleansing,
andhealingspells.Touseit,shakethebottle,sothatthelay-
ers disperse. They should return to their positions once the
bottle is at rest.
Rose of Jericho Water
RoseofJerichoisnotaroseatall,butaMexicandesertplant
withunusualproperties.Whenitsenvironmentbecomestoo
parched to support its existence, the plant hits the road to
findabetterhome:itretractsitsrootsandallowsthewindto
carryituntilitreachesaplacewhereitmaycontinuetogrow.
Itisachoosyplant;itmaynottakerootinthefirstplaceit
alights.
Theplantitselfhasevolvedintoapopularluckycharm,
sharedbymanytraditionsfromMexicanSanteriatoSouthern
Conjure to mainstream Wicca. Its miraculous re-hydrating
powers have made it a prized component of expensive anti-
aging skin creams.
Water used to re-hydrate the plant simultaneously cap-
turestheessenceoftheplant.Waterthathassuccessfullyre-
surrected a Rose of Jericho is magically transformed into
Rose of Jericho Water. Use pure spring water if possible.
1. Placetheroseinasaucerordishwithenoughwa-
ter to cover the bottom of the plant.868/901
2. Waitforittounfold.Don’tbeimpatient;although
somesourcespromiseyouthatthetransformation
willoccurovernight,realisticallyitmaytakethree
days or longer.
3. Changethewaterweekly,reservingtheoldwater
for magical use.
Rose of Jericho Water is used for:
• Cleansing spells
• House blessing spells
• Spell reversals and to repel malevolent magic
Rose of Jericho Water may substitute in any spell that calls
for Holy Water.
Tar Water
Thismightbethemessiestoftheformulas.Wearoldclothes
whileconcoctingit,notyourfinestrobe.Someoldformulas
suggest using creosote, however this has since been implic-
ated as a possible carcinogen and cannot be recommended.
Wood tar is required; you cannot substitute roofing or coal
tar, which are petroleum products.
Basic formula:
1. Approximatelyonequart(1liter)ofwoodtarisre-
quired,thestickystuffscrapedfromawood-burn-
ing fireplace chimney.
2. Putthetarinabucket.(Thebucketwillberuined;
you will never be able to use it for any other
purpose.)869/901
3. Add about a gallon (4.5 liters) of water.
4. Stirthetarandwaterwithastickforaboutfifteen
minutes. The stick will be ruined; use something
disposable,literallya“stick”ratherthanyourgood
wand.
5. Let the tar sit and settle for several hours.
6. Strain the water into a clean container.
7. Let the water settle again.
8. Strain it through cheesecloth or similar into a
bottle.
9. Shake before using.
Tar Water is used for:
• Space and personal cleansings
• Removal of negative thought-forms and psychic
manifestations
War Water, Iron Water or the
Water of Mars
Onceuponatime,thisformulawasamainstayoffolkhealers,
whousedittotreatanemia.Althoughitsmedicalusesareno
longer popular, this remains a very important magical
formula.
War Water is used:
• Togainprotection.Thisisanextremelyaggress-
ive, forceful spiritual cleanser
• Toreverseacurseandsenditbackwhereitcame
from870/901
• Toplaceacurse.WarWaterisatraditionaland
allegedlypotentweaponduringpsychicwarfare
and witch wars
Standard Protective War Water
1. Placeironnailsinamasonjar.Cutironnailsare
recommended because they rust very easily, but
any iron nails may be used.
2. Add enough water to cover the nails. Leave this
undisturbed until rust begins to form, typically
withinseventotendays.Althoughthejarisusu-
allykeptshut,itshouldbeopenedperiodicallyto
encourage oxidation.
3. Oncetherustingprocessbegins,morewatermay
be added. Keep the jar in a refrigerator or other
cool area.
4. Strain the water and use as needed.
Youmaycontinueaddingwatertotheoriginalnailsvirtually
indefinitely. Some people have a War Water starter lasting
years,akintoasourdoughstarter.However,shouldmoldor
bacteriaeverform,discardeverything,includingthejarand
start again from the beginning.
Standard Malevolent War Water
1. Collect water from a fierce thunderstorm in a jar.
2. Add rusty nails, sulfur, and some of your own
urine.871/901
3. Store this in a cold, dry place until you need it.
Thisversionisusedtoeitherplaceorreverseahex.Therus-
tednailsfromtheProtectiveFormulamaybeusedtocreate
the Malevolent version.
Condition Oils,
Formula Oils
Magicaloilsareamongtheoldestformsofenchantment,dat-
ing back to ancient Egypt, Mesopotamia, and Greece.
However,theirmagicalrenaissanceoccurredamongtheNew
Orleans Voodoo, Hoodoo, and Conjure traditions of the late
nineteenthandearlytwentiethcenturies.Mostofthestand-
ardformulasderivefromthattime,althoughmanyarebased
onmucholderroots.Thisperiodcoincidedwiththedevelop-
mentofthemail-orderbooktrade;occultistsarealwaysvora-
cious readers and the Hoodoo doctors were no exception.
Many were exceptionally well versed in magical traditions
fromalloverEarth.Hoodoodelightsinwordplay:thegenre
ofmagicspelloilsbecameknownas“conditionoils”asthey
will magically cure yourcondition.
Catchy,dramatic,evocativenamesbecamestandardized
aswell.Althoughtherearebasicguidelinesformakingthese
oils,considertheformulastobesimilartorecipes.“Chicken
soup”or “lasagna” raise certain expectations; however every
chef may prepare them slightly differently.
Thestandardizationoftheseoilscoincidedwiththemass
marketingofoccultproducts.Massmanufactureofcondition872/901
oils meant that the people making and selling the product,
someinspiredbytherealizationthattheremightactuallybe
somelow-riskmoneytobemade,mightnothaveunderstood
the product or in fact had contempt for the product and its
users,theircustomers.Unscrupulousvendorsbegantomar-
ketlittlemorethancoloredwaterinbottleslabeledwiththe
names of famous condition oil formulas. This frequently re-
mains the case. If your spell depends upon a condition for-
mula,itiscrucialforitssuccessthatyoueitherpurchasema-
terialsonlyfromreputablemanufacturersorthatyoumixthe
formula yourself.
Perfume formulas are marketed as perfume, cologne,
dustingpowder,soap,andotherformsaswell.Likewisecon-
ditionformulasmaybeavailableasoil,powder,incense,soap,
floorwash, or other forms. The botanical formula remains
constant; hence Commanding Oil is merely Commanding
Powderaddedtooil.Anyoftheformulasmaybeconvertedto
other forms as you please.
AlthoughconditionoilsderivefromNewOrleansVoodoo
andHoodoo,theyhavebecomeamainstayofmanyothertra-
ditions including Palo, Santeria, and Wicca. New formulas
consistentlyevolvetoservetheneedsofdifferentpractition-
ers and magical traditions.
All Saints Oil
This oil requires seven ingredients, similar to Seven African
PowersOil.The“saints”inthisoilmaybeunderstoodasthe
SevenAfricanPowers,orasgenericbenevolentspiritpowers,
orhoweverelseyouunderstandthem.Thisoilevokesbless-
ings of success.873/901
Grind and powder cinnamon, tonka beans, patchouli,
vetiver, lavender, gardenia, and mugwort. Cover with sweet
almond and jojoba oils.
Attraction Oil
Grated lemon zest
Lovage
Vervain
Essential oil of lemon petitgrain, melissa, may
chang, or lemon verbena
Rose attar
1. Grindthefirstthreeingredientstogetherinamor-
tar and pestle.
2. Place them in a bottle together with a lodestone
chip.
3. Cover with sweet almond oil.
4. Add the essential oils, drop by drop, until you
achieve a scent that pleases you.
Black Cat Oil
Essentialoilofclarysageordriedcrumbledsage
or clary sage leaves
Essential oil of bay laurel or dried crushed bay
leaves
Essential oil of myrrh or solid myrrh resin
A bit of steel wool
Fine iron shot874/901
1. Ifyouhaveablackcat,pickahairoffthesofaand
add it to the mix.
2. Blend with sweet almond oil, unless using for
hexes,inwhichcaseblendwithcastorormineral
oil.
BlackCatOilisusedtobreakbadspellsandhexes,butalsoto
attractpositiveattentionfromtheoppositesex.Ifprotection
isyourmajordesire,blendtheingredientsintocastoroiland
jojoba oil. If romance is your motivating factor, substitute
sweet almond oil for the castor oil.
Cleopatra Oil
Essential oil of cypress
Essential oil of frankincense
Essential oil of myrrh
Essential oil of petitgrain or neroli
Apricot kernel oil, to blend into
Come to Me Lover Oil
Jasmine absolute
Rose attar
Neroli or essential oil of petitgrain
Gardenia absolute (or fragrance oil)
Tuberose absolute
Blend the above into apricot kernel or sweet almond oil.875/901
Thisisthemostdeluxelove-drawingoil.Theingredients
areextremelyexpensive.Itisnotrequiredthatallofthembe
used,althoughthefirstthreearefairlystandard.Thesubsti-
tution ofpetitgrain for neroli will keep costs down.
Command and Compel Oil
Depending upon the manufacturer, this classic oil may be
marketedasCommandingOil,CompellingOil,Commanding
and Compelling Oil, Controlling Oil, or Conquering Oil.
It is not analogous with High John the Conqueror Oil,
which is a completely different condition formula used for
completelydifferentpurposes.WhatismarketedasAllHigh
Conquering Oil may be either High John the Conqueror or
CommandandCompel,providingthereareanyrealingredi-
ents in it at all.
The basic commanding formula consists of a blend of
sweetflag(calamus)andlicorice.Theyhavebeenusedtogeth-
erassuchsincethedaysofancientEgypt.Thesetwoplants,
blendedtogetherandreducedtoapowder,maybeaddedto
oil to create a potent Commanding Oil.
Otherplantsalsohavecommandingpropertiesandmay
be added. Vetiver is a typical addition, as is essential oil of
bergamot, which is a strong component of financial com-
manding spells. Before you add bergamot, however, decide
howyouwishtousethisformula.Essentialoilofbergamotis
highlyphotosensitizing.Itwasoncetheprimaryingredientin
European fast-tanning products. If applied to the skin, you
mustavoidexposuretothesunasoddandlong-lastingpig-
mentationmayoccur.Bergamotprovidesthedistinctivefra-
grance of Earl Grey tea. It’s very beautiful and tempting to876/901
apply to the body. Essential oils of bergamot are marketed
with the photosensitizing component removed; these are
known as bergaptene-free oils and are worth the trouble of
finding.
Addcommandingoilstoablendofcastoroilandjojoba
oil. Malevolent-intent spells would substitute a base of baby
oil or mineral oil.
Crown of Success Oil
Essential oil of bay laurel or dried crushed bay
leaves
Essential oil of frankincense or the powdered
resin
Essential oil of sandalwood or the powder
Essentialoilofvetiverordried,powderedvetiver
roots
Add the above to a blend of sunflower, olive, and/or jojoba oil
Essence of Bend Over or Bend
Over Oil
This formula compels others to bend over and do your bid-
ding.CreateanextremelyconcentratedversionofCommand
and Compel Oil.
BecausetheremaybeasexualcomponenttoEssenceof
BendOver,consideraddingaphrodisiacbotanicalstotheba-
sic blend, such as damiana, cubebs, or Grains of Paradise.877/901
Eve Oil
1. Place dried apple blossoms and pomegranate
seedsinabottleandcoverwithblendedsweetal-
mond and jojoba oils.
2. Add one of the snake roots.
Fiery Wall of Protection
1. Blend powdered dragon’s blood and sea salt to-
gether with a mortar and pestle.
2. Frankincense and myrrh are required. If you are
usingsolidresins,grindthemtogetherwiththein-
gredients in Step 1. If you prefer to use essential
oils, then add them last, following Step 3.
3. Addthesetocastoroil,whichhasprotectivecapa-
cities of its own but is a very thick oil. You may
wish to add jojoba oil, as a preservative, but also
so that the oil will flow nicely.
Somevariationssuggestaddinggroundgingerand/orcinna-
mon,too.Justbeawarethattheseareskinirritantsandmay
limittheusesoftheoil.Withouttheseingredients,FieryWall
can be added to the bath or worn as a protective perfume.
Flying Devil Oil
For the basic formula:878/901
1. Blend red pepper flakes and/or cayenne pepper
into an olive oil base.
2. When you shake the oil, you should see the red
pepper fly around.
Morecomplexversionsalsoincludesomeorallofthefollow-
ing:blackpepper,dragon’sbloodpowder,groundcinnamon,
driedpatchouliortheessentialoil,anddriedvetiverorthees-
sential oil.
Follow Me Boy! Oil
Typically,althoughnotalways,marketed withthatexclama-
tionmarkinitsnamesoastoemphasizethatthisisacom-
mand,notarequest.FollowMeBoy!isthemosteroticofthe
commandingoils.Itmaybeusedbyeithermenorwomenbut
thetargetofthecommandisinvariablymaleasexemplified
bythelegendthatthisconditionoilwasonceastapleofNew
Orleansprostitutesofeithergender,reputedlyguaranteedto
generate business.
The basic formula:
Sweet fag/Calamus
Catnip
Damiana
Optionalingredients:Licorice,sweetflag’stradi-
tionalpartner,strengthensthecommanding
aspect.Otherbotanicalsandfragrancesmay
beaddedasdesiredtostrengtheneroticim-
pact, particularly vetiver, bergamot, sweet
orange, tuberose, or any vividly red flowers.879/901
1. Grind and powder the dried botanicals.
2. Cover with one or a combination of these oils:
castor, sweet almond, and apricot kernel.
3. Castoremphasizesthecommandingaspect,sweet
almond and apricot kernel increase aphrodisiac
appeal.
Has No Hanna Oil
Essential oil of jasmine
Essential oil of tangerine (mandarin orange)
Dried powdered oakmoss or the essential oil
Dried powdered vervain
High John the Conqueror Oil
HighJohntheConquerorcanbeaveryelusiveandmysteri-
ous botanical. It has very unique properties. There really is
nothingthatsubstitutesforit.Ifthereisoneconditionoilthat
youshouldmakeforyourself,thisisit,ifonlytobesureyou
are getting the proper ingredients.
HighJohntheConquerorprovidesluckandsuccessinall
areasoflife.Itisparticularlybeneficialformeninregardsto
romance,althoughmanywomenswearbyittoo.HighJohnis
considered a completely benevolent botanical. It is used to
achievethehighestsuccesswithoutmalintenttowardothers.
SaintJohn’sWortandtormentilarefrequentlysubstitutedfor
HighJohn.Althoughtheyarebothplantspackedwithmagic
powers and used in many spells, their powers are different
and cannot be used to provide High John’s unique effect.880/901
HighJohntheConqueroristherootofamemberofthe
morninggloryfamily.Italsogoesbythenamejalapandas
such was once an important medical product in the United
States,althoughithasfallenoutoffavorandperhapsforgood
reasons.DonottakeHighJohninternally:itisanextremely
potent purgative and laxative. Reserve it for magical use.
It’stherootthat’susedandithasaverycharacteristicap-
pearance.Onceyouarefamiliarwithit,it’sdifficulttobecon-
fused. High John is large, solid, and brown with a vaguely
earthyaroma.Itsshaperangesfromperfectlycirculartoex-
tremelyphallic.ThisoilcallsforHighJohnchips,asdomany
otherspells.Oncearootisbrokenup,itistypicallyindistin-
guishablefromanyother.GrindyourownHighJohnsothat
you are not fooled.
1. Break up a High John root. Use a mortar and
pestleifyou’restrong.Thisisahardroot;grinding
maynotbeeasy.Placeitbetweenasheetoffolded
waxpaperandsmashitwithahammer,ifneces-
sary. Small chips are sufficient; the root doesn’t
have to be powdered.
2. Putthepiecesinadishandcoverthemwithpea-
nut, olive, sunflower, and/or jojoba oils.
3. Expose the dish to sunlight for seven days.
4. Strainouttherootpiecesorleaveintheoil,asde-
sired. Bottle the oil and use.
Home Protection Oil
Dried five-finger grass (cinquefoil)
Dried gardenia petals
Dried lavender blossoms or the essential oil881/901
Dried purslane
Sandalwood powder or the essential oil
Blend the above into a jojoba oil base. Add a pinch of salt.
Jezebel Oil
1. HoldaJezebelrootinyourlefthandandchargeit
with your desires.
2. Placeitinasmalljarandcoveritwithjojobaand
sunflower oil. (If you intend to use this oil for
stern commanding, add castor oil.)
3. Add essential oils of myrrh, frankincense, berga-
mot, and amyris.
Love Drawing Oil
Essential oil of lavender or the dried, ground
blossoms
Essential oil of jasmine or dried flowers
Rose attar or dried rose petals
1. Ifusingdriedbotanicals,blendthemandgrindin-
to a fine powder.
2. Cover them with sweet almond oil.
3. Essentialoilsshouldbeaddeddropbydroptothe
sweetalmondoil,untilthedesiredintensityoffra-
grance is achieved.
4. Add an orrisroot to the bottle.882/901
Lucky Lodestone Oil
Add crushed, powdered lodestone to Van Van Oil.
Maximon Oil
Essential oil of citronella
Essential oil of pink grapefruit
Essential oil of lemongrass
Essential oil of mandarin orange (tangerine)
Blend the essential oils into a base of jojoba oil.
Magnet or Lodestone Oil
Commercialpreparationsaresoldunderbothofthesenames,
however theterm Magnet Oil is used throughout thetext of
thisbooktodistinguishitfromLuckyLodestoneOil,whichis
a completely different formulation.
1. Place either seven or nine lodestones in a mason
jar.
2. Sprinkle them with magnetic sand.
3. Coverthelodestoneswithablendofsweetalmond
and jojoba oils.
4. Closethejarandletthelodestonesrestforseven
days, exposed to sunlight and moonbeams.
5. Pickupthejarandswirlthecontentsaroundonce
a day.883/901
6. After seven days, the oil may be strained and used.
7. Transfertheoiltodifferentbottles.Feedthelode-
stoneswithmagneticsandandusethemtomake
more oil.
Protection Oil
Ground cinnamon
Galangal root
Dried ground peppermint leaves
Dried rue
Dried ground vervain
Dried ground vetiver or the essential oil
Blendandpowdertheaboveingredients.Addthemtoabase
of sunflower, olive, and/or jojoba oil.
Queen of Sheba Oil
Makeda,QueenofSheba,visitedKingSolomonbearinggifts
of precious resins and spices. She allegedly introduced the
balmofGileadorbalsamtree,asourceoffragrant,precious
resin(althoughnotthesameasthebalmofGileadbudscur-
rentlysopopularinmagic).Thefinestbalsamresininthean-
cientworldwasallegedlyproducedinJudeafromtreesintro-
ducedbytheQueenofSheba.Thesebalsamgroveswerecom-
pletely eradicated by the Romans during their conquest of
Judea. Essential oil of amyris is the closest modern substitute.
Ifyou’dliketowearthisasperfume,keepthequantityof
cinnamonoiltoabareminimumtoavoidskinirritation.The884/901
oil is made from essential oils of amyris, cinnamon bark,
frankincense,myrrh,rose,andspikenard,addedtograpeseed
oil.
Saint Martha the Dominator
Oil
1. Grindspikenardrootshavings,sweetflag,licorice
root, and myrrh resin together.
2. Cover with olive oil.
Saint Martha the Dominator Oil is used for happy home
spells, domination spells, and protection spells.
San Cipriano Oil
TherearetwoSaintCyprians,bothformermastermagiwho
convertedtoChristianityandweremartyred.OnewasaBish-
opofCarthage.Oneorbothofthemseemstohaveresumed
hisformerprofessionafterdeath.SanCiprianoisthemostin-
fluentialfigureinthemagicaltraditionsoftheIberianPenin-
sula.Aprominentgrimoireisattributedtohim.SanCipriano
isamiracleworker;theoilnamedinhishonorallegedlycasts
miraculous spells.
Cinnamon powder
Low John the Conqueror
Orrisroot
Myrrh resin or the essential oil885/901
Essential oil of cedarwood
Essential oil of cypress
1. Blend and grind all solid materials together to
form a powder.
2. Cover them with olive, sunflower, and/or jojoba
oils.
3. Add the essential oils as the last step, drop by
drop,untilyou’veachievedthedesiredintensityof
fragrance.
Low John the Conqueror, also known as bethroot, was not
long ago a very common magical plant and is a traditional
componentofSanCiprianoOil.Itisnowhighlyendangered
anditisverylikelythatyouwillnotbeabletoobtainit.Even
if you can, it should be verified whether it was ethically
gathered,forthesuccessofyourspellsaswellasforthesake
of the plant. There really is no adequate substitute for it.
However, leave it out if necessary and compensate by
strengthening other areas of spell work, visualization for in-
stance.Perhapsthebestalternativeistoattempttogrowyour
own supply of bethroot.
Seven African Powers Oil
Addthefollowingtopalmoil:realcoconutextract,blackpep-
per, mugwort, cinnamon, sea-weed (dulse, agar-agar or oth-
er),realalmondextract,andeithermimosaorjasminefora
total of seven ingredients.886/901
Uncrossing Oil
Essential oil of hyssop
Essential oil of angelica
Essential oil of frankincense
A pinch of sea salt
A pinch of black pepper
A pinch of cayenne pepper
A sprig of rue
A sliver of fresh garlic
Asectionofbrokenchain,e.g.,fromakey-chain
or necklace
Addtheingredientstoabottlefilledwithblendedcastoroil
andjojobaoil.Thecrucialingredientsarethehyssopandthe
chain. Add the other ingredients as desired. Essential oil of
angelicahasphotosensitizingproperties:ifwornonthebody,
avoid exposure to the sun.
Van Van Oil
The epitome of condition oils, Van Van may be the single
mostversatileoil,drawingluck,love,andprosperityandre-
pellingmalevolentmagicdirectedtowardyou.Manyconfuse
thenamewith“vanilla.”Itmaybeaddedifyoulike,however
trueVanVanisablendoffivewildAsiangrasses.Similarfor-
mulas may also be marketed as Hindu Grass Oil or Henry’s
Grass Oil.
The five grasses are lemongrass, citronella, palmarosa,
gingergrass,andvetiver.Allofthemareavailableasessential887/901
oils,althoughgingergrassisrare.VanVanmaybemadefrom
essential oils, dried botanicals, or a combination of the two.
Addthemtoabaseofjojoba,sunflower,and/orsaffloweroils.
Patchouli,anotherAsiangrass,maybeaddedforsomeextra
power.
For optimum power, all five grasses should be used,
however any combination is acceptable. Lemongrass is the
predominant ingredient, if only because its aroma is so po-
tent. Many versions of Van Van contain only lemongrass.
Wall of Protection Oil
Fiery Wall of Protection Oil minus dragon’s blood.
Incense and Powders
Loose incense consists of nothing more than the dried,
powderedingredients.“Powders”maybeidenticaltoincense,
the words are sometimes used interchangeably, or you may
blend them with arrowroot powder, cornstarch, or rice
powder, to create a dusting powder.
Amber
Donotburnamberbeads!Theconfusionliesbetweentheso-
lidified resin known as amber and ambergris, the fragrant
substance derived from sperm whales, also often called888/901
“ambra.”This“Amber”formulasomewhatreplicatesthefra-
granceofambergris.Blendgroundpowderedlabdanum,ben-
zoin, and vanilla bean.
Black Salt
AlthoughthereisanactualblacksaltusedinIndiancuisine,
magical black salt is concocted by blending salt with the
scrapingsfromcastironcookware.Blacksaltismainlyused
in protection spells and to cast hexes.
Cascarilla Powder
This is powdered eggshell: the only ingredient is eggshell.
Eggshells once had profound associations with European
witches.Witcheswerebelievedabletotransformanemptied
eggshellintoavehiclefortraveloverwaterorthroughtheair.
Tomakesuretheyweren’thelpingthewitcheshavefun,many
insisted on crumbling emptied eggshells before disposing of
them. To leave them whole was to invite the witches’ use.
Ironically,powderedeggshellisamagicalingredientinmany
spells, both benevolent and otherwise.
Cascarilla Powder can be either white or brown:
White Cascarilla Powder
1. Clean the eggshells and let them dry out.889/901
2. Crumble the pieces and place them in a mortar
and pestle.
3. Grind these into a fine powder.
Brown Cascarilla Powder
1. Clean the eggshells.
2. Break up the shells so that the pieces lie flat.
3. Toast these pieces in a low, slow oven until the
shells brown.
4. Grind these to a fine powder.
Drawing Powder
This is confectioner’s sugar.
Graveyard Dust
Graveyarddustmaybeself-explanatory:dirtfromthegrave-
yard.Itmayalsobevariousbotanicalsoracombinationofthe
two.
Valerian, patchouli, and mullein all bear the nickname
“graveyard dust.”Grindandpowderthebotanicals anduse
themwheregraveyarddustordirtisindicated.Alternatively,
collect dirt from the cemetery.890/901
Goofer Dust
“Goofer” derives from the Kikongo word “kufwa,” meaning
“todie,”and99.5percentofGooferDust’susesaremalevol-
ent. It is a usually a blend of graveyard dirt (real dirt, not
botanicals)withothersubstances.Thousandsofrecipesexist,
with practitioners boasting of the potency of their private
blends.
GooferDustallegedlycausesthetargetofthespelltobe-
come weak and confused. Powers of speech, concentration,
and thought are allegedly affected; the target acts “goofy.”
SomeclaimGooferDustleavesvictimscrawlingonallfours,
barking like a dog. Particularly potent Goofer Dust, real
“killingpowder,”causesthevictimtowasteaway,eventually
dying if an antidote is not found.
Themostcommonbasicversionisablendofgraveyard
dust,salt,andsulfur(brimstone.)Otherpopularingredients
include gunpowder and church bell grease.
Goofer Dust’s most famous associations are with New
Orleans-styled Voodoo and Hoodoo, from whence it derives
its name. Although it may not be called Goofer Dust else-
where,thisisnotanisolatedformula.Inhisautobiography,
Dr.John,thebrilliantNewOrleansmusician,recallsscraping
grease from church bells for the dust. Across the Atlantic
Ocean,farfromAfricaninfluence,Slavicwitchestraditionally
climbedintochurchsteeplesonSaintGeorge’sDaytoobtain
grease from bell axles for similar purposes.891/901
Henna Powder and Paste
Henna powder derives from the dried ground leaves of the
henna plant. Henna paste is created from the powder. Al-
though henna paste may be purchased, choose your vendor
carefully:foroptimummagicpowerandaestheticbeautyboth
powder and paste must be fresh, not aged. There are thou-
sandsofmethodsofpreparinghennapaste:techniqueandin-
tuition combine. Here is a suggestion:
1. Henna powder should be green and fragrant.
2. Even though a reputable vendor will sift their
henna, further sifting may be required and will
certainlybebeneficial.Sievesareancientmagical
tools:whilesifting,concentrateonyourdesiresfor
the henna design, whether aesthetic or enchanted.
3. Boilapproximatelyonehalfcupoflooseblacktea
in roughly four cups of water until the water has
been reduced by about one half.
4. Add any additional ingredients: suggestions in-
clude rose petals, saffron, fenugreek, or cloves.
5. Simmer this brew for approximately an hour.
6. Strain and discard the solids, reserving only the
liquid.
7. Strainalemonorlimeandaddonlythejuice,not
pulp or seeds, to the brew.
8. Warm the brew but do not allow it to boil.
9. Begintoaddapproximatelyonehalfcupofhenna
powder.Additslowly,spoonfulbyspoonful,keep-
ing an eye on the texture. The goal is to achieve
something that is similar in consistency to cake
batter.892/901
10. Once the consistency has been achieved, add ap-
proximately one teaspoon of essential oil of
eucalyptus.
11. Testthepastebydabbingalittleonyourskinand
leaving it there for fifteen minutes. Although the
hennaisnotyetfullstrength,afaintorangetinge
should still develop.
12. Let the finished paste rest in a warm place,
covered,forapproximatelysixhoursbeforeusing
it to paint designs.
Kyphi
KyphiwasanEgyptiantempleincenseformulasoimportant
thatitsformulawasengravedontotemplewalls.Variousfor-
mulasexisted.Kyphiisanoil-andfat-freeformula,basedon
wineandraisinswithaddedfragrantbotanicals.Itwasused
insacredritualbutalsotorelieveinsomniaandprovidedeep
sleep. Ingredients might include:
Cardamom pods
Cinnamon
Coriander seeds
Frankincense
Golden raisins
Honey
Juniper berries
Mastic resin
Myrrh
Red wine
Rosebuds
Sweet flag/calamus root893/901
Thescenttraveled throughtheancient world:theEgyptians
were scandalized when the Greeks began to use kyphi as an
aphrodisiac.TheEgyptianmethodofcreatingkyphiwascom-
plex. An example follows. The name “kyphi” is frequently
used by manufacturers of spiritual products to indicate any
incense possessing an ancient Egyptian “ambience.”
Egyptian Kyphi
1. Beginbyblendingequalpartsdriedgroundacacia,
henna, and juniper.
2. Soak the resulting powder in wine.
3. In a separate container soak golden raisins in
wine.
4. Allow this soaking process to continue for seven
days.
5. Take equal parts cardamom, sweet flag/calamus,
cinnamon, peppermint, bay leaves, galangal, and
orrisroot.
6. Grind each one separately then blend and grind
again into a fine powder.
7. Add a tablespoon of honey and a tablespoon of
myrrh resin to the spice mixture.
8. Drain the herbs and raisins soaking in wine and
add them to the honey/myrrh/spice mixture.
9. Addsufficientwinetosteepthecombinedmateri-
als, plus terebinth and raisins to form a thick
paste.
10. Usethisasis(simmerittoreleasethefragrance)
or dry it, cut into squares, and burn as incense.894/901
New Home Incense
Coriander seeds
Frankincense
Mastic pearls
Myrrh
Grind the above ingredients together and burn.
Magic Inks
Manyspellsinvolveawrittencomponent.Onceuponatime,
magicianschosetheirinkcarefullydependinguponthepur-
pose of the spell, in the manner that someone today might
chooseacandleorconditionoil.Somemagiciansstilldo.The
mostpopularmagicalinksusedinWesternmagictendtobe
named after the blood of various creatures. They are mar-
keted commercially and are readily available through occult
sources.However,inmanycaseswhatispurchasedisnothing
more than plain ink with a label bearing a catchy title.
Alonghistoryexistsofusinganimalnamesasacodefor
variousplantsubstances.Amongthereasonsforthispractice
was the desire to maintain secret formulas. Unfortunately,
when the formulas are obtained without understanding or
evenknowingoftheexistenceofthecode,allsortsofmisun-
derstanding and tragedy may follow. While some complain
thatmodernmanufactured“blood”inksnolongercontainthe
botanical formulas, others claim that the formulas actually
demand blood; the only way to produce “true” dove’s blood895/901
ink,forinstance,beingtoslitthethroatofadove.Thisisun-
true.Dove’sbloodinkisfrequentlyusedtowritelovespells.
DovesaresacredtoAphrodite,GeniusofLove.Doyouthink
that, having done very bad things to her bird, she will look
kindlyonyourpetition?Theonlybloodtypicallycalledforin
magic spells may be your own, and even that requires no
more than a few drops from a finger.
Formulasarefrequentlyverysimilar.Theredcolortypic-
allyderivesfromtheresindragon’sblood,apowerfulmagical
agent.Evenifaformuladoesn’tspecificallycallforit,itisex-
tremelylikelythataddinggumarabicaorgumtragacanthto
the mix will be necessary in order to make the ink thick
enoughtobefunctional.Typicallyonequartertoonehalftea-
spoon is needed.
If mixing inks from scratch is forbidding, a simple yet
magicallychargedmethodofcreatingthevarious“blood”inks
istoaddtheappropriateessentialoilsandresinstoplainred
ink.
Dove’s Blood Ink
Dragon’s blood
Alcohol
Gum arabica
Scentwithessentialoilsofbaylaurel,cinnamon,
and rose
For love spells.896/901
Dragon’s Blood Ink
Alcohol
Dragon’s blood
Gum arabica
Optional: Essential oil of cinnamon
Tips for Magic Ink and
Written Spells
• Wormwoodallegedlypossessesthemagicpower
to provide protection for the written word from
allsortsofdangers,spiritualandmagicalaswell
as the verminous kind with little teeth. Dioscor-
ides recommended adding wormwood juice to
ink, in order to keep mice away from papyrus.
Addittoanyoftheaboverecipes,ortoanyother
ink
• The grimoire Grimorium Verum, allegedly pub-
lishedinEgyptin1517,recommendsthat,regard-
lessofwhat’sactuallyintheinkwell,amagician’s
inkwell should be inscribed with the following,
transliterated from the Hebrew:
YOD HE VAV HE
METATRON
YAD
KADOSH
ELOYM897/901
SABAOTH
Thisservestoinfusedivinepowerintotheinkandtoward
off evil influences.Copyright
HarperElement
An Imprint of HarperCollinsPublishers
77-85 Fulham Palace Road,
Hammersmith, London W6 8JB
www.harpercollins.co.uk
HarperElement is a trademark of HarperCollinsPublishersLtd
ThematerialinthisbookistakenfromTheElementEncyclopediaof5000
Spells, first published by HarperElement in 2004
© Judika Illes 2004
Judika Illes asserts the moral right to be identified as the author of this work
A catalogue record of this book is available from the British Library
AllrightsreservedunderInternationalandPan-AmericanCopyrightConven-
tions. By payment of the required fees, you have been granted the non-
exclusive,non-transferablerighttoaccessandreadthetextofthise-bookon
screen.Nopartofthistextmaybereproduced,transmitted,downloaded,de-
compiled,reverseengineered,orstoredinorintroducedintoanyinformation
storageandretrievalsystem,inanyformorbyanymeans,whetherelectronic
ormechanical,nowknownorhereinafterinvented,withouttheexpresswrit-
ten permission of HarperCollins e-books.
EPub Edition © MAY 2010 ISBN: 978-0-007-38589-8About the
Publisher
Australia
HarperCollins Publishers (Australia) Pty. Ltd.
25 Ryde Road (PO Box 321)
Pymble, NSW 2073, Australia
http://www.harpercollinsebooks.com.au
Canada
HarperCollins Canada
2 Bloor Street East – 20th Floor
Toronto, ON, M4W 1A8, Canada
http://www.harpercollinsebooks.ca
New Zealand
HarperCollinsPublishers (New Zealand) Limited
P.O. Box 1
Auckland, New Zealand
http://www.harpercollinsebooks.co.nz
United Kingdom
HarperCollins Publishers Ltd.
77-85 Fulham Palace Road
London, W6 8JB, UK
http://www.harpercollinsebooks.co.uk
United States
HarperCollins Publishers Inc.900/901
10 East 53rd Street
New York, NY 10022
http://www.harpercollinsebooks.comnazov knihy ==================Wicca_ A Modern Guide to Witchcraft and Magick - PDF Room.pdf
what living in 2018 has brought to us.
First, as I mentioned previously, we can learn spells pretty much
anywhere now. There are tons of spells, rituals and potions to make,
adapt to our own intuition or use at our will, all documented online by
experienced Wiccans. There are also an increasing number of books
about spell work being published every year by incredible authors–not to
mention the most accurate way of learning spells, from trusted witches
and Wiccans.
It’s also much easier now to find the tools that we may want to use in
our practices and to research different types of tools and raw materials.
We can order purpose-made athames and bolines (both ritual knives)
and chalices for our altars if that is what we prefer. There are also many
online shops now, selling an endless supply of tarot cards, wands,
crystals and even herbs that you can order and import for all of your
magickal needs. This may open up opportunities for us to create spells
with elements that we could have never dreamed of twenty years ago.
Wicca is no longer a secret–and before the faith’s recent growth in
popularity, some practitioners may have felt it necessary to keep their
activities confidential. Access to open discussion and education on the
true meaning of Wicca has changed opinions on both personal and family
levels and also in the media. The fact that we can (funds allowing!)
relatively easily visit the ruins of the temples of ancient Rome, dedicated
to our chosen deities, or that we can contact an online coven in another
continent brings the possibilities of our practices, experiences,
understanding and discussions to another level, if this is what we choose.
Everything is so easy to source and learn now; it’s wonderful in so
many ways, but it’s important to remember that a faith based on authentic
principles is far more important than making a fashion statement and how
you are perceived on social media.
SOCIAL MEDIA FOR WICCANS
Social media has benefitted today’s Wiccan community in extreme
amounts and, without it, a lot of us would have never even heard of the
faith. It’s an incredible tool to use on our Wicca journeys. There are
increasingly more Wiccans, witches and pagans educating people on
YouTube; they are creating tutorials showing us how to cast specificspells, illustrating how to do divination and sharing many more personal
aspects of their practices.
Instagram has also seen a new community come to light, with
Wiccans either teaching or showing their followers aspects of their
journey or simply enjoying the witch aesthetic that has become popular
with the new wave of Wiccans online. There are also apps for pretty
much anything, from tarot readings, to online spell books, to Wicca
community pages for Wiccans to share and connect. In general, this is an
extremely positive step forwards, but there are two sides to it. Yes–
everything is easier and anything we want for our Wicca journeys, tools,
herbs, information, etc., can be sourced easily and quickly. However,
sometimes social media can affect people’s journeys negatively and a lot
of younger Wiccans may not see the faith for what it truly is. Wicca is a
faith, a way of life; you don’t need every tool or every herb, need to know
every detail when you are starting out. Just because you have a crystal
ball and someone else does or doesn’t have the economic means or
space to have one, that doesn’t make you a better Wiccan.
The witch style, aesthetic and vibes are fun and the online
communities are incredibly interesting and entertaining but, in reality any
true Wiccan can live and breathe their Wicca paths with or without the
internet. The foundation and beliefs of Wicca will always be as simple as
they were fifty years ago. There are some things you can learn only from
experience, living as a Wiccan every day. This knowledge gained from
daily witchcraft and the secrets within Wicca cannot be found online.
The internet, used correctly, can be an incredible tool to help us with
our practices and, as it’s a huge part of our society, why not embrace it?
There are so many incredible Wiccans, witches and pagans behind this
movement, so do seek out the writers, the YouTubers and the platforms
we use to share our journeys with the world as witches and Wiccans.What Is Wicca?
The Wicca faith, its traditions and principles can signify different things to
different people and many aspects are open to interpretation. I have
attempted to outline the basics as I understand them from my own
experiences, study and day-to-day practices.1.
Wicca, Witchcraft and Paganism
The most common confusion about the terms Wicca, witchcraft and
paganism is the difference between them. I have often been asked
whether all witches consider themselves to be Wiccans, and some
people think that all pagans consider themselves to be witches and many
people are under the misconception that to be a Wiccan just means to be
a ‘good’ witch. There is a huge difference between the three, so let us
clear up the difference now. This could also help you when thinking about
which path to follow from the beginning and maybe discovering which
one you consider yourself to be.
WICCA
Wicca is a pagan, nature-and witchcraft-based religion. A Wiccan is
someone that follows pagan beliefs and also practises witchcraft as a
part of their faith. We follow the eight Sabbats (festivals) and twelve
Esbats (celebrations of the full moon) and practise magickal workings
such as rituals and spell work at specific times related to the phases of
the moon. A Wiccan follows the energy and power of the natural earth
and the universe and all its natural occurrences, the moon, the sun and
the stars.
Wicca also promotes a great sense of freedom and positivity. It gives
you the opportunity to take a path in the faith that you feel is right for you,
allowing you freedom within the faith to do things in a way that you
choose. Wicca embraces the fact we all have different beliefs and
opinions while still being a part of the faith; it gives us the opportunity to
live how we would like to but with the guidelines of our beliefs. Wicca
promotes positivity but also self-love and empowerment, while trying to
diminish negative energy and behaviours. Most of all we believe inbalance: we believe that there can be no good without bad and that we
cannot learn if we do not make mistakes. We own our mistakes and
realise we alone are in charge of our behaviour. Wiccans tend to have
morals and codes that keep this balance in our lives and that ensure we
are as kind to humans, animals and the earth as we can possibly be. This
also means keeping cruel, manipulative and toxic behaviour towards
others as far away from us as possible. Wiccans practise their magick
using the natural world around them. This can be from the ingredients
that they use, the earth’s energy and even the timing of when we carry
out our spell work, using the moon’s phases and seasons to guide us.
We incorporate magickal workings into our philosophy to keep harmful
factors out of our lives and to bring in positivity and goodness.
PAGANISM
A pagan is simply someone who follows a nature-based religion,
paganism. There are several religions that could fall under the term
paganism, such as Wicca, Druidry and Asatru. Pagans can be
monotheistic or polytheistic, which means they can believe in one or
many divine beings. Many pagans believe in one god and one goddess
as they tend to believe in balance. Pagans practise nature-worship
(which may sound a little strange to you, but it’s not, I promise). Many
have a strong belief that the earth is sacred and they should treat it as an
equal to themselves and take care of it as well as they possibly can. All of
their practices follow the earth and natural occurrences such as the
seasons, the moon and phases of the sun.
WITCHCRAFT
Last, but not least, is witchcraft. This is a practice. It is a craft. And a
witch is somebody that practises witchcraft; to be specific, who practises
magick and uses the earth’s energy to achieve a specific desired result.
Anybody who practises a form of magickal workings, such as divination
and future prediction, healing using the natural world, ritual work, spells,
potions, alchemy, herbalism, etc., can be considered a witch. Sometimes
even people with psychic abilities or who are spiritual mediums may
consider themselves to be witches. So, a witch is someone who simplypractises witchcraft in some shape or form. This means you do not have
to be a Wiccan to be a witch, nor do you have to celebrate the Sabbats or
follow any pagan teachings: a witch can have any or no religion. This
also means you can be considered a witch if you are a Wiccan, even
though ‘Wiccan’ is the preferred term, because we practise witchcraft as
an element of our path.2.
Divination
Divination uses a variety of tools in order to gain insight into situations, or
your own or other people’s lives. Many Wiccans enjoy practising
divination–it is a massive subject–and I get asked so many questions
about it.
Wiccans use divination to predict the future, to gain insight into the
present and the past. Sometimes in life you need a little help, maybe
you’re feeling confused about a situation or you want some insight into
which path the situation is moving towards. By using divination, you are
allowing messages to come to you by using tools in a specific way in
order to hear guidance from the universe and the divine.
I believe that everybody has some kind of psychic ability, but most of
us mask it unintentionally throughout everyday life. Divination can be a
tool to unlock and exercise our psychic abilities, allowing them to shine
through. Your subconscious psychic mind needs to take over, which can
be extremely relaxing and make you feel close with the divine; it can also
help you to balance your emotions.
Divination helps to bring the solutions to problems into the light. Some
Wiccans prefer to stick with one form, while others like to explore and
work with all methods. There are many incredible books and online
resources that explain and demonstrate the different divination
techniques. I would suggest researching the methods that most appeal to
you and reading and watching as many tutorials as you can. Until then,
here are some basics:
DIFFERENT METHODS OF DIVINATION
TAROT READINGTarot cards are a deck of seventy-eight cards, twenty-two of which are
the major arcana and the other fifty-six, the minor arcana.
The major arcana are the cards that you might have seen before, with
the names at the bottom of the cards, for example ‘The devil’, ‘The
lovers’, etc. These cards are typically seen as the stronger cards: you
must take notice of these during your readings as they are cards for the
long-term and are related to the more significant parts of your life.
The minor arcana are split up into four suits–the wands, the swords,
the cups and the pentacles/coins. Each suit has fourteen cards. Each of
the suits count from one to ten; the number one is usually represented as
the ‘ace’ card and the suit also has a page, a knight, a king and a queen.
The minor arcana are still important cards, but are perhaps more relevant
to the short-term and to the background of your life situations. It’s still
important to treat these as significant as they can still impact on some
major parts of your life. In a tarot card deck, each card symbolises
something different, thoughts, feelings, situations and intentions all
presented in each card. As you draw a card, it is telling you what it
represents in relation to your life. There is a card for everything that a
human can experience. Tarot card reading can give insight into the
future, present and past. For me, the cards lay your life and the situations
in your life out in front of you, making it easy to gain understanding and
perspective.
You can also use tarot cards in your other magick, for instance, in
guided meditation; if you are focusing on relationship problems you might
want to hold or place the Lover’s card in front of you. The tarot cards are
made from organic materials and they collect energies in a similar way to
the other tools that Wiccans use from the natural world. In the same way,
you can use tarot cards for spell work; by choosing a card that relates to
the spell that you are casting.
RUNE STONES
These are a set of stones, crystals, plastic or wooden pieces which have
been painted, carved or engraved with ancient alphabetic symbols. A
typical set has twenty-four stones, but can have as many as thirty,
depending on where they are from. Sometimes each set includes a blank
stone too. Most rune stones have the Elder Futhark alphabet written onthem; each letter also symbolises significant power and meaning (see
here). Some rune stones have different alphabets with different
interpretations, but the stones with the Elder Futhark alphabet are the
most commonly seen.
There are many ways to cast rune stones. One method is to either
hold the stones in your hand or in a bag and draw stones one at a time,
noting their meanings as you do so. Another way is to cast your rune
stones into a cloth, a mat or a bowl.
Rune stones are known for having magickal and spiritual properties,
you can use them for divination and guided meditation much like tarot
cards and crystals. If you cast your rune stones and there is a stone in
particular you would like to gain more insight into you can meditate with it
too. You can also use rune stones for spell work.
Rune stones are also often used for protection purposes. The symbols
can be used and painted around your homes, on your tools and in your
Book of Shadows.
SCRYING
Scrying is the term for gazing into mediums with a reflective or polished
surface such as crystal balls, water, scrying mirrors made from obsidian,
or into fire or smoke. The art of gazing is an extremely powerful thing. It
relaxes your mind and allows your psychic abilities to see visions, images
and messages. These can give you insights into problems that you might
be considering and can answer questions about the futures of yourself
and others. You must let the images and visions come to you. Don’t force
it–it will come naturally with time and practice. These visions can be
received in different ways; some people have them appear fairly clearly in
their minds while gazing at the medium, some see visions in the
reflections and others make out shapes and images within the medium
that they are using–for example, in fire you could, briefly, see the face of
someone familiar in the flames.
The best way that I have had scrying described to me is that it is
similar to when you’re lying in the dark, looking around your room, if you
focus enough, you can organise what you see into shapes, objects and
muted colours. Or you can do a similar thing if you close your eyes and
concentrate on looking into the darkness behind your eyes.Seeing a situation from the perspective of a reflection is very effective
for use in meditation, necromancy and also accessing other realms. It is
difficult to work with and can take some getting used to. Meditation is a
wonderful way to relax you into your subconscious if this is easier for you.
PALMISTRY
Palmistry is the art of reading the lines on somebody’s hand for divination
and future prediction. The hands possess a large amount of power and
their appearance can show us various different aspects of our lives and
personalities. Each line, bend and mark, depending on the thickness and
shape, has a different meaning. Different experiences in life are also
represented, including career and relationships.
TASSEOGRAPHY
Tasseography is the art of reading tea leaves that are left in your cup
after drinking the tea. You can work out shapes, pictures and symbols
that you can interpret to predict the future. It’s an ancient form of
divination that can be practised with different mediums such as tea
leaves, coffee grains and wine residue as well.
Tasseography is sometimes more difficult than other forms of
divination because you are relying solely on your psychic intuition to work
out what is in the cup. However, with a bit of practice you will soon be
using your knowledge and intuition to work out symbols and meanings in
the leaves. For instance, seeing a skull can signify an ending or
something to be wary of and a snake can indicate betrayal.
You can use any cup for tasseography, but a small, round, light-
coloured teacup seems to be better for getting accurate readings and to
see the tea leaves more clearly than you would with a mug. A cup with a
saucer is ideal because during a tea leaf reading you need something to
flip your cup onto to put the excess tea leaves on. You can also buy
tasseography cups that work in a slightly different way, with symbols
around the cup so that the area that the tea leaves settle in is relevant to
your reading.PENDULUMS
Pendulums are one of the oldest, most incredible forms of divination,
used in so many aspects of Wicca and spell work. A pendulum is typically
a chain or string with a crystal or a wooden or metal pointed charm
attached to the end. It is an extremely simple method of divination used
to gain information by receiving answers, depending on how the
pendulum swings. You have to train your pendulum to work by clasping
the top of it in your hand and asking it to say ‘no’, then recording how it
says ‘no’, asking it to say ‘yes’ and recording that action too. You may
have to do this a few times to get the pendulum tuned to you and to make
sure it’s performing in a consistent way for each ‘yes’ and ‘no’ answer.
Once you’ve trained the pendulum and understood its movements, you
have bonded and can use it to ask questions and gain insight into
situations. You can also use a pendulum chart for your divination work.
As well as being a relatively simple form of divination, it is also
inexpensive and very versatile!3.
Nature
Nature is everything to Wiccans. Nature is the basis behind our practices;
it is everything that we believe in, live by, worship, use and honour.
Nature is all around us, everything that the earth has produced, natural
occurrences, weather, the trees, the grass, plants, animals, the stars, the
seas, the moon and the sun.
The earth owes us nothing; humans do not own the earth; neither are
they more important. The earth is here with us–and in Wicca we work
alongside nature. We love the earth and help it, respect it and honour it
as much as we can. To Wiccans, the natural world is like a church is to
Christians. Nature made us; we all evolved from the same place. In
nature, everything has found its own natural balance and in Wicca, we
strive to do the same within ourselves. This is why we treat everything as
equal and respect that everything should maintain a balance. We also
realise that nothing is perfect; there can be no good without bad, no dark
without light and no birth without death.
Wicca teaches equality, love and tolerance; it doesn’t matter who you
are, where you come from, your race, gender or sexuality. Everything
and everyone evolved from the same place; the earth and the natural
world that created us; we all exist in the same universe and without every
individual living thing, the world would not have balance.Over the last centuries, science has made so many breakthroughs
and discovered many amazing things, such as the Big Bang theory,
cures and prevention of diseases and various energy sources that we
now take for granted–which are all incredible, aren’t they? Yes, all of
these things have been proven or developed by science, using our
earth’s natural reserves and properties, but this doesn’t make them any
less magickal. The natural world has so much incredible potential–and
magick and witchcraft use some of the earth’s capacity to push
boundaries and discover ways to heal, help, create and communicate.
Nature produces medicines and plants that have proven effects on our
body. For instance, you can eat fungi that make you have visions (I don’t
recommend this!), you can drink camomile tea to calm an upset stomach
or rub lavender oil on your forehead to help you sleep. Early practitioners
of witchcraft were damned and seen as evil, but they were herbalists who
combined natural materials to benefit and heal; their potions were early
medicines. Everything that the human race has ever discovered comes
from the natural world; it’s all already here. It sometimes just requires us
to open our eyes so that we can see it.
HOW DO WE EMBRACE NATURE?
So, how do you incorporate the natural world into your Wicca journey?
Like I said, it’s the basis for everything that Wiccans believe. We
celebrate the seasons and the moon phases (see Part 3, Wiccan
Holidays and the Wheel of the Year) and we use natural materials in our
practices. We welcome and support nature by studying and learning as
much as we can about the natural world and how we can use crystals,
herbs, plants, trees, water, snow, rain, the moon, the sun, etc. In fact, my
favourite and the easiest recommendation is embrace nature when you
are starting out in Wicca. Go outside–go for a walk, for a swim in a lake,
pick some flowers, plant some seeds, feel the elements, really think
about your experiences and write about how these things make you feel.
Nature has provided everything that we have, we simply wouldn’t be here
without it! Celebrate what it has given us. Don’t take advantage of the
power that we have to destroy it. Try your best and embrace every
second you have with it. Work alongside nature to benefit your life and to
assist the earth. Every day the sun rises and the cycle of life continues,where would we be without it?4.
The Three-Fold Law, Morals and the Wiccan Rede
As we have discussed, the Wicca path is typically a super free one–and
this is one of the factors that makes Wicca so special. But that does not
mean that Wiccans can do whatever they please without a care for
anyone else. Of course not! Within Wicca, we have moral principles and
laws that keep us on the Wiccan path and that encourage a positive, kind
and thoughtful lifestyle.
THE THREE-FOLD LAW
The Three-Fold Law, also known as the law of three, is a moral guide for
some Wiccans; it’s a kind of Wicca form of karma. The basic belief of the
Three-Fold Law is: whatever energy you send out into the earth, you will
get back three times over.
Some Wiccans interpret this as the positive or negative will return to
them three times and others believe that whatever type of energy they
send out into the universe will have an effect on the three major parts of
their own being–physically, emotionally and spiritually.
Not all Wiccans follow the Three-Fold Law, but most Wiccans believe
in the basic principle that whatever energy you put into the earth, be it
negative or positive, it will return to you. For example, if you are a Wiccan
who practises positivity and respect throughout their life and also in their
Wiccan practices, you send out a lot of positive energy and this positivity
should return to you. I, personally, think that this is true, regardless of
whether you believe in the Wicca faith. Think about it this way, if you
spend your time being unkind, writing passive-aggressive tweets or
statuses, making harsh or hurtful indirect comments or, in general, are
super negative to those around you, chances are people will legitimately
not enjoy your company and may not want to be associated with you.This could lead to you being alone and not feeling respected, which will
inevitably give you negative emotions and affect your life in a potentially
damaging way. Again, whether or not you believe in the spiritual side of
this principle, there is something here for us all to reflect on.
During magickal workings, it is crucial to remember this way of
thinking and to bear in mind that a lot of (all though not all) Wiccans live
their spiritual, mental and physical life by the saying from the Wiccan
Rede (see here), ‘An Ye Harm None, Do What Ye Will’. In a modern
form, this is, ‘If it harms none, do what you will’ and relates to emotional,
spiritual and physical harm. It’s important to ask yourself how this applies
to whatever you’re about to do in your magickal workings and to make
sure it’s not manipulating anyone’s free will or causing a short-term or
long-term harmful effect on any living thing. It is perfectly okay to perform
spells for selfish needs, as long as it doesn’t break this rule. You can be
selfish and benefit personally from magickal workings without causing
harm to others. It’s very important to never carry out magickal workings if
you are angry or highly emotional; similarly, you wouldn’t perform
divination while in a negative or emotionally charged state because your
energy would affect the outcome.
Wiccans may follow ‘If it harms none, do what you will’ as law, but this
does not mean that you have to back down in every situation or let
people hurt you–and, if people go out of their way to cause you harm, the
law doesn’t mean that you have to sit back and do nothing, just in case
you harm them in some way.
Another factor of this principle is to stop or prevent harm being done.
There are two types of wrongdoers; those who do the wrong deed, and
those who see the wrong being done and don’t try to stop it from
happening. If somebody is causing you harm in any way, you have a right
to stop this harm. There is always a limit to what you can do, but as long
as you follow the law as strictly as you can, remember that balance is the
key element here. If harm comes your way, you have a right to put a stop
to it. Also, sometimes harming something is inevitable; for example,
accidentally, stepping on an insect or accidentally hurting someone’s
feelings; none of us is perfect and we have to remember this, we are all
human beings and everyone makes mistakes.
FREE WILLFree will is also important to remember during your Wicca practices and
magickal workings. Even if you believe that you are doing good and
causing no harm to someone during a spell, if you perform a spell that in
some way manipulates someone’s free will, this is not okay. You should
never perform a spell that can change someone’s actions for your own
selfish desires, even if you have the power to do so. For example, if you
have a friend who is in a situation with their partner that you feel is bad
for them, it is not okay to interfere in this by using a spell to control your
friend to make them leave their partner. Even if you feel sure that this is
the right decision for your friend, it would be controlling their free will.
Always consider whether magickal practices are the correct answer for
the situation; there are always several ways to approach a problem. Also,
try to put yourself in the other person’s situation; ask yourself if you would
be okay with this? This doesn’t mean that you can’t perform spells on
other people, just remember not to compromise their free will and
consider whether the spell will harm or manipulate them in any way.
Some people may not want a spell cast on them even if you are just
trying to help! I would suggest asking them before doing anything unless
you are certain that they would be happy with your actions.
THE WICCAN REDE
The Wiccan Rede is a set of moral codes or key statements that Wiccans
can use as principles to guide their lives. As I said, many, but not all,
Wiccans choose to do this. Of course it is entirely a personal choice. The
Wiccan Rede is written in the form of a poem and is frequently written at
the beginning of your Book of Shadows. The original author of the
Wiccan Rede was influenced by several well-known Wiccans dating back
many, many years, but in fact the author remains unknown.The Wiccan Rede
Bide within the Law you must, in perfect Love and perfect Trust.
Live you must and let to live, fairly take and fairly give.
For tread the Circle thrice about to keep unwelcome spirits out.
To bind the spell well every time, let the spell be said in rhyme.
Light of eye and soft of touch, speak you little, listen much.
Honour the Old Ones in deed and name,
let love and light be our guides again.
Deosil go by the waxing moon, chanting out the joyful tune.
Widdershins go when the moon doth wane,
and the werewolf howls by the dread wolfsbane.
When the Lady’s moon is new, kiss the hand to Her times two.
When the moon rides at Her peak then your heart’s desire seek.
Heed the North winds mighty gale, lock the door and trim the sail.
When the Wind blows from the East, expect the new and set the feast.
When the wind comes from the South, love will kiss you on the mouth.
When the wind whispers from the West, all hearts will find peace and rest.
Nine woods in the Cauldron go, burn them fast and burn them slow.
Birch in the fire goes to represent what the Lady knows.
Oak in the forest towers with might, in the fire it brings the God’s insight.
Rowan is a tree of power causing life and magick to flower.
Willows at the waterside stand ready to help us to the Summerland.
Hawthorn is burned to purify and to draw faerie to your eye.
Hazel—the tree of wisdom and learning adds its strength to the bright fire
burning.White are the flowers of Apple tree that brings us fruits of fertility.
Grapes grow upon the vine giving us both joy and wine.
Fir does mark the evergreen to represent immortality seen.
Elder is the Lady’s tree, burn it not or cursed you’ll be.
Four times the Major Sabbats mark in the light and in the dark.
As the old year starts to wane the new begins, it’s now Samhain.
When the time for Imbolc shows, watch for flowers through the snows.
When the wheel begins to turn soon the Beltane fires will burn.
As the wheel turns to Lamas night power is brought to magick rite.
Four times the Minor Sabbats fall, use the Sun to mark them all.
When the wheel has turned to Yule, light the log the Horned One rules.
In the spring, when night equals day, time for Ostara to come our way.
When the Sun has reached its height, time for Oak and Holly to fight.
Harvesting comes to one and all when the Autumn Equinox does fall.
Heed the flower, bush and tree, by the Lady blessed you’ll be.
Where the rippling waters go, cast a stone, the truth you’ll know.
When you have and hold a need, harken not to others’ greed.
With a fool no season spend or be counted as his friend.
Merry Meet and Merry Part bright the cheeks and warm the heart.
Mind the Three-fold Laws you should, three times bad and three times good.
When misfortune is enow, wear the star upon your brow.
Be true in love, this you must do, unless your love is false to you.
These Eight words the Rede fulfill:
An Ye Harm None, Do What Ye Will.
VEGANISM AND VEGETARIANISMAnother controversial subject which is discussed a great deal in the
modern Wiccan world is the question of whether all Wiccans should be
vegetarian or vegan. Because many Wiccans live by ‘If it harms none, do
what you will’, this leads to a debate about whether it is acceptable to
contribute to harming animals in any way; this includes unnecessary
product testing on animals, as well as actually eating animals and animal-
related products. Some Wiccans interpret the saying to extend to the
earth. Personally, I choose not to eat meat and to only purchase cruelty-
free products as far as possible. For me, this relates back to the eight-
word saying above, which I try to live by.
However, we have to remember that this choice is not always
available to everyone and that others have different priorities and
limitations in their lives. As I said before, not everybody thinks and feels
the same about things and a Wiccan’s choice on how to eat or what to
purchase is entirely up to them and we must try to understand one
another’s differences. Even if we have completely different beliefs, all we
can do is discuss with and educate one another on why we feel a certain
way, without attacking each other. In my opinion, we should do what we
can to prevent harming the earth and other living beings as much as we
can; every little thing helps–from making small changes like using cruelty-
free make-up and toiletries and maybe having a meat-free day once or
twice a week or only consuming meat and/or dairy products at the
weekends. It all depends on your own personal ideas about your faith but
sometimes, just making a little change or contributing to a more positive,
less harmful life by taking tiny steps can have a huge, positive effect on
how you engage with the world and how you feel in yourself. This is just
something to consider and is not in any way compulsory for being a
Wiccan. Veganism and vegetarianism were not major considerations
when Wicca was created, but now that we have such easy access to
education and discussions on the subject of choosing a low-cruelty
lifestyle, these choices seem to be increasingly popular and open for
debate in the modern world of Wicca.5.
Magick
Since the start of my journey in Wicca, I’ve been asked many questions
about magick: What is it? Is it real? Why do you spell it like that? Is it
dangerous? There are many misconceptions around magick which have
created a fantastical, false idea about what many people think magick is.
In reality we do not fly on broomsticks, flick our wands and make frogs
appear. Real magick can be numerous things; it can be a ritual, or a
spell, it can be the creation of a potion or magick can be divination. Or it
can be as simple as cooking a meal for a loved one! Yes, magick is
powerful, but there really is nothing to be scared of.
Magick is not imaginary or pretend; we use the power of our five
natural senses, combined with the power of nature, crystals, herbs,
stones and the five elements (air, fire, water, earth and spirit) to achieve
effective results. Magick is everywhere, right in front of us at all times; we
put our desire into something and make it happen–this is magick.
Numbers, words, colours, thoughts, actions and symbols are all magick,
the natural world that surrounds us is magick. A lot of Wiccans believe
that everything in our world is made up from the same substance; we are
connected to everything else, we are made up from the same matter as
the sun, the stars, the earth below us and the sky above us. We are
made from the same substance as the entire natural world is made from,
presented in a human being. We have the same energies and properties
that the earth holds, all within ourselves; we each hold all of the power
and energy that we need. If we use our senses to their full potential, we
can manipulate energies within nature to gain effective results.
Magick doesn’t work by lighting a candle and mixing a few herbs
together and saying ‘abracadabra’, magick comes from within you and
your intentions. You can’t do spell work without intent; it won’t work.
There is nothing to be scared of in magick and you should explore it and
study it, especially if your intentions are good. However, magick isdefinitely not easy and it takes a lot of practice and adjusting to–and it’s
extremely draining, as well. Magick also requires getting into the right
frame of mind; meditation can help with this as it enables you to tap into
your psychic abilities and to open your third eye (heightened intuition and
perception). Then maybe after a while you will no longer need to meditate
and it will be easier to access.
MAGIC VS MAGICK
Magic with a ‘c’ is commonly associated with fantasy magic, such as
stage tricks; pulling a rabbit out of a hat, etc. It’s a form of entertainment
and is a performance based on tricks. While magick spelt with a ‘k’ refers
to the type of magick used by witches, Wiccans etc. in witchcraft. Some
prefer to use the word ‘magick’ with a ‘k’ so that it isn’t confused with
fantasy magic. You don’t have to spell it differently–just be aware that
there is a difference between the two.
THE DIFFERENT TYPES OF MAGICK
There are tons of different types of magick, to do with the mediums you
use to create or assist it; for example, kitchen magick, herbal magick,
candle magick, etc. All of these can be used to cast spells.
SPELLS
Casting spells can take a few different forms, the main two being
charming and potions. Spell work is something we do for personal gain
and assistance. The energy that you release in spell work will bounce
back to stimulate the intent of the spell. A spell could use verbal
indications such as chants, sayings or simple word formations,
sometimes combined with physical movements and different variations of
objects and tools and mediums to create a magickal energy. See the
Spell Work chapter in Part 3 (here) for starter spells and how to prepare
for them.
RITUALSRITUALS
Many people think that rituals and spells are the same but they are not.
Rituals are for a longer lasting purpose; they reach deeper within your
core. Rituals are performed as a part of the Wicca faith, you can do them
within a group or alone and they are typically used to become closer to
the divine.
We usually cast spells for a few main different intentions. Honouring
spells can be used specifically for our deities, for the Sabbats or Esbats,
or for the deceased. They are used to give thanks to the natural earth, to
natural occurrences such as seasons and to your deities (however you
perceive them). You can cast a spell to get rid of something, to expel or
remove something that you no longer want or need in your life. You can
cast spells to bless something or someone–objects or people–and these
types of spells can help a situation, a venture or a relationship to begin
with good energy and intentions; to create a positive start to something.
For example, this type of spell could be used when you or someone you
know is moving to a new home; blessing the house will create a positive
new beginning. You can also bless new tools that you are going to use in
your magickal workings. Existing tools, places and relationships, etc. can
also benefit from blessing spells–for instance, maybe you have been
going through a period of negativity, for whatever reason, and you feel
that this has attached itself to your room, your personal space or haven;
blessing the room can create a new energy and new beginning in that
area. Or you can cast spells for something that you may want to add to or
gain in your life or to help you to create positivity for yourself in some
form. For example, you might be hoping for a promotion at work and you
can cast a spell to help with this.
POTIONS
A potion is a mixture of ingredients that, when combined in the proper
fashion, has magickal energy. A potion can be a blend of herbs, oils, teas
or other natural materials. Potions can be used externally, bathed in, or
consumed by drinking or eating, sometimes even steaming, or burning.
Potions are so diverse; there is probably a potion for every type of spell
that you may need! There is no specific potion or spell for each subject
and intent; for example, there is no one potion for a love spell. There arelots of different ones and every combination works differently on every
person. Liquid potions should be stored in bottles, jars are best for dried
materials or, if the potion is not suitable for storing, be sure to discard it
properly, by burying it in the ground, for example.
WHEN IS THE BEST TIME TO DO MAGICK?
There are certain times of the month, week and moon phases that are
the optimum times for particular magick or to ask for specific things. We
follow the moon during magick. The moon is our goddess and has a huge
impact on our earth and has associations with everything that grows and
is created. It enhances psychic knowledge.
WAXING MOON
The waxing moon is the time straight after the new moon, when the
goddess in is her maiden form. This is a beneficial time to do spells for
growth, new comings, also improving things, any aspect of your life that
may need this, such as career, love life, friendships and spiritually. This is
a time for increasing aspects of your life. It’s also a great time for magick
that’s connected with changes, taking up new hobbies, financial spells
and balance spells too.
WANING MOON
From after the full moon to until it’s the new moon again is the phase of
the waning moon. This is a good time for banishing spells, removing
obstacles and health and wellness spells, for both mental and physical
well-being. This is also a great time to decrease the negative aspects of
our lives, to get rid of or ‘lessen’ anything that we feel we need to. Also, it
is a time to let go of anything affecting your happiness, whether it be any
angry thoughts and feelings you may have towards someone or
situations causing you stress or rage. Spells for clarity and to help you
understand the way to move forwards in a situation, and cleansing spells
are also relevant at this time too. The goddess is in her wise crone form
in this phase.NEW MOON
The new moon is always the best time for spell work relating to new
beginnings and ventures, in any form, whether it be looking for new love,
a new job or starting on a new path or phase in our lives. It’s also good
for beginning to let go of the past and starting afresh. It’s a beneficial
phase in which to assess what is required to change in our lives in order
for them to progress and grow. Change is good–we need it to remove
what no longer serves us, to remove anything that has a negative impact
in our lives. The new moon is a fantastic time to look to the future. The
triple moon goddess is in a secretive state and the moon is dark.
FULL MOON
In Wicca, the celebration of a full moon is called an Esbat, (see Part 3,
Wiccan Holidays and the Wheel of the Year for Esbats and how to
celebrate them). This is a relevant time for numerous types of magick, as
the night of the full moon is the most magickal night of each month. It’s a
good time for magick related to healing, strength, power, money, dreams
and psychic knowledge. It’s an excellent time of the month to draw the
energy from the moon to help create positive energy within yourself and
your life and to bring about bigger changes. It is generally a good time for
‘bigger’ spells, where you require more energy and power. It’s a
beneficial time to meditate on important issues in order to find answers,
and divination is also at its most powerful. Psychic energy is radiating
from the moon now and it’s also time to use that to its full potential for
significant and powerful magick. The goddess is in her motherly form at
the full moon.
MAGICK ACCORDING TO THE DAYS OF THE WEEK
MONDAY
Monday is named after the moon, and associated with moon deities.
Colour correspondences: Silver, white and blue.
Magickal intent for Monday: discovering unknown knowledge, uncovering
mystery, illusion, sleep, emotions, travels, peace, fertility, insight,creativity, wisdom, new starts, dreams and seeking answers.
TUESDAY
Tuesday is associated with the planet Mars.
Colour correspondences: Red and orange.
Magickal intent for Tuesday: Conflict/resolving conflict, success,
overcoming obstacles, protection, cleansing and strength.
WEDNESDAY
Wednesday is associated with Mercury.
Colour correspondences: Purple, lavender and orange.
Magickal intent for Wednesday: finance, change, creativity, work, luck,
improvement and art.
THURSDAY
Thursday is associated with Jupiter.
Colour correspondences: blue, green and purple.
Magickal intent for Thursday: strength, protection, overpowering
obstacles, healing, inner strength, mental health and physical health.
FRIDAY
Friday is associated with Venus.
Colour correspondences: pink, red and light blue.
Magickal intent for Friday: fertility, love, relationships, friendships, sex,
passion, birth, romance and improvement.
SATURDAY
Saturday is associated with Saturn.
Colour correspondences: black, purple and deep red.
Magickal intent for Saturday: wisdom, psychic abilities, protection,banishing, safety and cleansing.
SUNDAY
Sunday is associated with the sun.
Colour correspondences: yellow and gold.
Magickal intent for Sunday: peace, self-expression, creativity, fame,
promotion, career, wealth, healing, growth and victory.
IS THERE A WRONG TIME TO DO MAGICK?
There are so many good opportunities to do magick, but unfortunately,
sometimes, there are times when it just shouldn’t be used or it just isn’t
the appropriate time. Magick should only be performed when you are
feeling at your neutral mental state, no matter what that might be (it is
different for every individual). You don’t have to be ecstatically happy or
extremely positive, just in the clearest, most reasonable mental state that
you can be in. Being angry or creating a spell out of anger is never good;
it can reflect in your magick and come back to you. It is the same with
being highly emotional, sad or overly stressed. Also, doing a spell from
the perspective of purely seeking revenge or in order to harm someone is
never good. Always look to the law of three (or Three-Fold Law) if you’re
undecided over whether to do something or not and, if you’re not sure,
meditate on it, seek the answer and then rethink. If you’re just not feeling
up to doing a magickal working that you have planned, for whatever
reason, there will always be an opportunity to do it at another time, so
there’s no need to rush, it will work a lot more effectively when you’re
feeling up to it.
RULES OF MAGICK
There are a few rules that some (but not all) Wiccans like to follow when
casting their magick to ensure that they are following the law of three.
If you can solve the situation without magick, do so. Magick is not used
to solve something that you simply can’t be bothered to sort out inother ways; that lack of thought and energy will show in your magick
and the outcome will be unsuccessful. For example, if you’re having
problems with someone that you cannot avoid–a co-worker or
someone who attends the same classes as you but who is
manipulative, a bully or who generally brings harmful energies–try to
think of ways to confront them, involve other people to help you or
physically distance yourself from them. Explore all other avenues
before turning to magick. This might solve the problem, but even if it
doesn’t, you will have the motivation for magick, which will make its
use far more successful.
As we spoke about in the chapter on Three-Fold Law (see here), never
manipulate free will while casting spells.
Remember ‘If it harms none, do what you will’–a line from the Wiccan
Rede (see here) which some Wiccans try to always follow.
Don’t be greedy, Wicca is all about balance; don’t ask for the world.
For example, you may want to improve your career, so, instead of
asking to instantly become the CEO of the company that you’re
working for, you could do a spell to help boost some aspects of your
career and to help you advance along your chosen path. It’s always
important to be aware of maintaining balance, because whatever
you’re asking for has to come from somewhere; materialistic things
don’t just appear. This doesn’t necessarily mean that you can’t ask for
something big if it’s in great need; just make sure that you balance it
out. In order to gain something, maybe you could sacrifice something
else; for example, perhaps you need a promotion, but maybe some of
the money you get once you’ve been promoted could go to charity to
help someone else, or you could use your position to assist somebody
in need in your line of work.6.
Wiccan Paths
Unlike some religions, Wicca is adaptable to you, your lifestyle and who
you are as a person. Of course, there are basic principles and beliefs,
such as the fundamental ‘If it harms none, do what you will’ and the eight
Sabbats and twelve Esbats which are celebrated by all Wiccans. There
are also, unfortunately, people in the Wiccan community that think their
way of practising is the only correct way. However, I have also found that
there are crazy amounts of paths or traditions you can follow to make the
amazing journey that you are embarking on right for you. Basically,
Wicca is adaptable for anyone who has a passion for the faith.
WHY WOULD YOU CHOOSE ONE WICCA PATH OVER
ANOTHER?
All humans are unique: we each have different desires, feelings, beliefs
and powers in us, and if some traditions and paths may suit one person,
they might not make sense to another. Choosing a Wicca path that feels
right for you can also help you find your way in the faith; the basis of your
chosen path, its magickal workings and practices, can provide you with a
much clearer route for your Wiccan journey. The path that you follow can
also help to shape your identity as a Wiccan–which can be both personal
and important to the individual.
FINDING YOUR PATH
So, how do you decide which path is right for you? It’s actually a lot
easier than it sounds. Typically, in order to find your Wiccan identity, you
can research into the different traditions and paths until you find one that
suits your beliefs and interests or that you simply feel drawn to on somelevel. You might find that you are already instinctively following some of
the traditions that relate to a particular path. Some people like to use
divination to determine which route to take while others just seem to
know instinctively! Many Wiccans, myself included, may feel that they
identify with more than one path, for example, I’m an eclectic Wiccan, but
I also practise the faith independently, without a coven, so I’m an eclectic
solitary Wiccan (see the following sections for further explanation of what
I mean). You can combine paths that work together if it feels right for you
to do so. There are no restrictions or rules about how you decide which
path is best for you. I have described a list of Wicca paths and traditions
that I feel can help you make an informed choice. Also, remember that
people change paths all the time, you can follow many different traditions
in a lifetime and some paths may suit you at certain points in your life and
at other times you may feel a different path works better for you.
I am going to explain a little about some of the different types of Wicca
paths and traditions that you can follow. First, I would like to say that this
is not a definitive list, but it includes the main paths that I am aware of
and am educated about. If none of these feel right for you, there are still
lots of others and, as I said, it’s completely fine to combine paths as I
have. There are some limitations in that some traditions don’t work
together, but, in Wicca, I don’t feel there are many restrictions or
limitations on what you can do. So, it is about thinking over which path is
best for you in the faith to help you with your journey and guidance. This
is just a short list of the traditions in Wicca that you can follow and a short
briefing on them, so please do some of your own research online and in
the many reference books available. Also please remember that each
path is open to individual interpretation and may mean different things to
different practitioners. I hope this section helps you with deciding your
own correct Wicca path.
DIFFERENT TYPES OF WICCA PATHS
GARDNERIAN WICCA
I’m starting with this very well-known Wicca path. Gardnerian Wicca wascreated by Gerald Gardner, who is considered to be pretty much like the
dad of Wicca. Around the middle of the twentieth century, Gardner had a
huge influence on the Wicca faith; he was responsible for promoting the
religion throughout the world. The Gardnerian path is a coven-based path
which supposedly follows insight and practices that Gardner learned from
his previous experiences with other groups. In the Gardnerian path, you
typically only follow one god and one goddess. It is believed that
Gardnerian coven practices are kept secret from anyone not initiated,
that Gardnerian Wiccans cannot share the fact they are in a coven and
that they have to sign an oath to keep the secrets of the coven safe. This
might be why there is a lack of published information about the actual
Gardnerian beliefs and practices. Gardner has initiated many High
Priestesses and High Priests to lead their own covens and membership
is only achieved through initiation by these High Priestesses or High
Priests. There is thought to be a system of hierarchy or levels attained
within this path. It follows that it is rare to find a solitary Wiccan practising
this path.
CELTIC WICCA
Celtic Wicca is a more modern form of Wicca. Its traditions teach a deep-
rooted love for the earth and spirituality and it incorporates Celtic lore.
The Celtic path typically has two main deities: the Mother Earth Goddess
and the Horned God but can also have other minor deities that they can
still worship and help with their practices which are typically from a
Celtic/druid pantheon. They study the magickal properties of plants and
crystals, stones, herbs, flowers, trees, elemental spirits, gnomes, sprites
and fairies, which they also use heavily in their magickal workings,
including rituals and spell work. Celtic Wicca can be learned and
practised solitarily but some practitioners of Celtic Wicca believe that
being part of a druid-led coven helps the followers of this path find their
way.
ALEXANDRIAN WICCA
Alexandrian Wicca was introduced by Alex Sanders in the 1960s. It isheavily influenced by Gardnerian Wicca, being coven-based, with rituals
led by a High Priest and Priestess, and members who are initiated have
to sign an oath of secrecy to the coven. The differences between
Alexandrian and Gardnerian paths are firstly the deities; instead of
believing in two principal deities as Gardner teaches, in this path you can
believe in any number of deities and from whichever pantheon you
please. Sanders had practised Gardnerian Wicca throughout his life and
felt as though it was too controlled and forced. This particular path
incorporates elements of ceremonial magick and Qabalah. Alexandrian
wiccans are thought to emphasise gender polarity; I feel that it is a good
thing that this emphasis is decreasing in the modern world of Wicca as
we learn more, progress and grow as a community.
ECLECTIC WICCA
Eclectic Wicca is one of the paths with the greatest following. As I
mentioned previously, I identify as an eclectic Wiccan. An eclectic
Wiccan does not follow a specific tradition but picks and chooses specific
deities that they are drawn to; for instance, they could follow any sets of
deities or can just pick and choose one or any number from different
paths. Some eclectic Wiccans believe that all the deities represent the
same entities but they just stem from different cultures and are presented
in different ways. The majority of eclectic Wiccans are solitary Wiccans
but there are, of course, a lot of covens that have eclectic Wiccans, as it’s
a very accessible path for your Wicca journey.
SHAMAN WICCA
For an extremely long time, Shaman practice was seen as an individual
path, distinct from Wicca. Nowadays, being a Shaman and a Wicca are
thought of as being a very modern combination despite the fact that
uniting the two paths has been a tradition for longer than we could
imagine. Shaman Wiccans follow the same typical traditions as other
Wiccans but they use their practices and techniques to connect with the
spirit/sacred realms. Shaman Wiccans can reach different states of
consciousness, speak to spirits from which they gain knowledge andanswers and predict the future. Shamans also practise both physical and
spiritual healing. A Shaman Wiccan can follow any deities they would like
but can also use spirits to help with magickal workings. Again, Shamans
can be solitary or work within a group or coven.
SEAX WICCA
Seax Wicca is heavily influenced by the folklore of Anglo-Saxon
traditions. It was founded by Raymond Buckland, who was originally a
Gardnerian Wiccan who moved from England to the United States in the
1970s, where he created this new path. Buckland established a more
accessible and open path in that Seax Wiccan covens follow a
democratic system, electing officers and High Priests and Priestesses
with a yearly vote. There is also no secret oath taken. Runes play a
significant part in divinatory practices. You can follow this path solitarily
but because of its openness, joining a coven or an online coven may be a
good path to take if this suits your lifestyle. There is no one set of rules or
regulations for Seax Wicca.
DIANIC WICCA
Dianic Wicca is a feminist form of Wicca that is quickly growing in
popularity. This path was founded by a hereditary witch named
Zsuzsanna Budapest, in 1971, in Venice Beach, California. This path
generally follows the typical traditions of Gardnerian and Alexandrian
Wicca. However, Dianic Wiccans tend to focus on female energies and
the goddess side of things and not so much on the god and male energy
side of things. They also focus on female deities but typically worship one
main deity, which is the Roman hunter goddess Diana. Typically, this
path is for females only and works to create a safe space for women who
may not, for various reasons, feel comfortable practising with men.
HEREDITARY WICCA
Hereditary Wicca is the term for a Wiccan that is born into a family that
also practises the Wicca faith or has ancestors that have practisedWicca, even if they follow a different path to their family. A Hereditary
Wiccan may be brought up as a Wiccan or they might decide to adopt the
Wiccan faith into their lives later on but, either way, they come from a
family that practises it. Once again, Hereditary Wicca can be combined
with other paths. Hereditary Wiccans can sometimes be part of a family
coven or choose to practise as a solitary Wiccan.
SOLITARY WICCA
As you could probably guess from the name, a solitary Wiccan does not
belong to any coven or group and mainly practises the faith alone. As
with eclectic Wicca, solitary Wiccans follow whichever deities they are
drawn to, and they are not limited to a specific number of deities; they
may follow just one or a whole pantheon. Today, many Wiccans choose
to be solitary because they want to explore a path or multiple paths and
make their own discoveries in the faith. If you define yourself as solitary,
you are probably not actively looking to join a group or coven.
FAERY WICCA
A Faery Wiccan places importance on the fae; sprites, faeries, elves,
gnomes, etc. who keep everything balanced in the natural world. Faery
Wicca developed from early Celtic traditions and beliefs. Faery Wiccans
tend to practise faery magick and work closely with faeries and other
members of the fae. They also use faery power, an energy from the fae.
They work with faery energies and hold them in high regard, above other
deities. Some believe that Faery Wiccans should only worship the fae
themselves as their deities whilst others worship an eclectic mix of
deities, depending on individual preference. Some people in the Faery
Wicca community also like to have specific Wiccan names for themselves
(this is common with other traditions as well).
DRACONIC WICCA
Draconic Wiccans worship dragons and dragon lore. Believe it or not,
dragons and dragon lore are part of the super ancient beliefs andcustoms of many different cultures. Draconic Wiccans mainly practise
Draconian magick, which is powered by the strong energies of dragons.
For most practitioners of Draconic Wicca, dragons represent wisdom and
balance. It is common for them to work with dragon gods and goddesses,
who are called to you or into you in times when needed the most–
Sabbats, during a full moon or if you have a powerful spell to tackle. They
also call on elemental dragon guardians for rituals which represent the
elements used in traditional Wicca practices. Draconic Wiccans, again,
can be in a coven or clan or practise solitarily. Draconic Wicca practices
are usually passed down by word of mouth but as this path increases in
popularity, more published information is becoming available if you would
like to do further research.
GREEN WICCAN
A Green Wiccan practises mainly nature-based and earth-oriented
witchcraft. They typically use herbs, flowers, trees, fungi and plants in
kitchen magick (which can be a separate Wicca path in itself) and
herbology. Also, growing their own gives them a deeper connection to the
plants. Green Wiccans usually practise witchcraft using elements of the
earth, rocks, crystals and fossils. Green witches also tend to specialise in
herbal remedies. Green Wiccans can follow whichever deities they
choose or they might specifically follow nature spirits, which are the dead
of humans, animals and plants. A form of green witchcraft which is better
classified as Green Wicca was popularised by Ann Moura. This connects
to the forest, but places a lot of emphasis on folklore and folk magick
from a wide range of cultures. Green Wiccans can be solitary
practitioners or part of a coven. Many Wiccans follow some of the Green
Wicca practices, particularly growing their own herbs for use in their
practices.
AFRO-WICCA
Afro-Wiccans follow the Wheel of the Year, celebrating and honouring the
natural world. They perform rituals and spell work according to the sun
and the moon and follow the Wiccan Rede and the law of three, and liveby the rule ‘If it harms none, do what you will’. Followers of Afro-Wicca
will invoke, honour and worship deities from the Egyptian, African and
Afro-Caribbean pantheons. Their magickal workings might include
practices found in rootwork, voodoo and hoodoo. Afro-Wicca is a
relatively new path of eclectic Wicca; it is a combination of paths in which
some practitioners include elements of their cultural heritage and
energies while still following the main beliefs and practices of the Wicca
faith.
DECIDING ON PRACTISING SOLITARILY OR IN A COVEN?
Deciding on whether you want to practise solitarily or in a coven can be
super easy and lots of factors can determine what’s best for you. Like I
said before, there may be a path you are drawn to that is coven-based,
while some other paths can be more flexible and can be practised in a
coven or solitarily.
Some people feel their level of concentration and power within the
world is best alone, and some feel it increases when they are surrounded
by people sharing the same path as them.
Either way, there are positives to being in a coven, like learning from
other incredible Wiccans all embarking on the same path as you, having
a community to share your journey and the Wicca path with, including the
Sabbats and spell and ritual work, and also having a group of people to
be a part of spiritually–which can also include amazing support.
You can look into joining an online coven or search for one that you
can be a part of in the real world. You could find that you enjoy being in a
community with like-minded people and accept that you’re going to be
learning from other Wiccans and taught a specific way for the path you
have chosen. Find out more on how to find your coven here.
On the other hand, you may like to practise the faith alone, and
embark on your journey alone because you may feel you can concentrate
and strive within your magickal workings and that being solitary may give
you the freedom to create your own journey and possibly a broader path.
Practising the faith solitarily can give you an opportunity to do things your
way, and make your path your own.
For most Wiccans, it’s completely normal to fall naturally into being in
a coven or to practise the faith on their own. Whichever path you choose,though, whether solitary or a coven, you can always change your way.
A Wiccan’s will is free.7.
The Book of Shadows
A Book of Shadows is a personal record that anyone embarking on a
Wicca journey can use to document absolutely everything that they learn
and discover along the way. It is your own book that can be used to
record your personal and individual growth in the faith. You might include
spells, rituals, potions, aspects of magick, chants, information on the
elements, magickal tools used in your workings, divination such as
information gathered from tarot cards, tasseography, rune stones, etc.
You also might include more personal information, such as your own
deities, your path, information about your own particular magick tools and
documentation of individual methods and results of your spell and ritual
work. It is important to keep documentation of all your work as a Wiccan–
for me, the main reason is that a Book of Shadows holds so much
information about your personal Wicca journey which can be looked back
on and reflected on at a later date.
A Book of Shadows can be any type of book, but it is preferable to
begin with a durable, thick book because, trust me, there will be a hell of
a lot of information to fill it with. It can be hardback or paperback and
some people like to use binders and loose pages because they are easy
to arrange, add to and put neatly in order–all super helpful for
documenting your journey. Also, an ordered Book of Shadows can make
it easier when you need to look back at a particular section or subject.
Some Wiccans choose to have one book documenting everything; others
work on multiple Books of Shadows. Personally, I find that it works well
for me to have two books; one for recording practical experiences, such
as spell work, and one that I use more for recording information, such as
the historical side of spells and why I might use them. It is entirely up to
you: start recording your journey and see what feels right and makes
sense.However many Books of Shadows you start with, the chances are that
you will end up having more than one in your lifetime. You will find that
you never stop learning and recording, so after you’ve finished your first
Book of Shadows, simply purchase or make another and continue the
documentation of your Wicca journey.
A Book of Shadows is like any of our magickal tools that we keep safe
and sacred to us. Many Wiccans find that they prefer to keep their books
extremely private, because they are so very personal–similar to keeping
a journal. It is absolutely fine if you feel that you don’t want anyone to see
your book. Alternatively, some Wiccans are more open and not so
protective, allowing close family and friends and people they trust access
to their books. Once again, everyone feels differently and it is up to the
individual to decide their level of privacy.WHAT IS THE DIFFERENCE BETWEEN A BOOK OF
SHADOWS AND A GRIMOIRE?
While a Book of Shadows is a record of your own personal experiences
as already described, a Grimoire is similar but would not include personal
paths and choices, such as your own personal deities, information on
how you do your own spells or your own individual methods. It focuses
on the practical and factual elements of your journey. Families and
covens are likely to have a Grimoire to share their teachings with the
entire group and they also may have a Book of Shadows. A Grimoire is
not usually written for one specific Wiccan. You will find that the way you
document your journey will naturally fall into the style of a Book of
Shadows or a Grimoire.CREATING YOUR OWN BOOK OF SHADOWS
There are lots and lots of commercially produced Books of Shadows
these days that have been designed and printed worldwide, but I strongly
recommend creating and writing your own. I believe that documenting
your own growth and achievements helps you learn and progress on your
path and helps you to discover your own identity and to become the
Wiccan you would like to be. Starting your Book of Shadows can be
really confusing and nerve-wracking, but remember there’s no rush; you
have the rest of your life to write about your newfound faith.
One of the most difficult parts (for me anyway) of creating your Book
of Shadows is actually getting started. You can begin by personalising
the cover of your book to suit your Wicca journey and yourself. Some
choose to leave this until later, when they know how they’d like to
express themselves–perhaps decorating it to suit a path they have
chosen or aspects of the faith that they would like to emphasise or reflect.
Some leave it blank or decorate it simply with a pentagram. The
possibilities are endless. Here are some ideas to help kick-start your
journey–but really just follow your heart.
• Symbols that are relevant to your journey, for example, pentagrams,
pentacles, protection symbols, element symbols, god and goddess
symbolism, etc.
• Crystals (preferably ones that are relevant to you, ones for spiritual
protection or that you are drawn to) • Relevant or interesting drawings,
paintings, pictures • Make or buy a cover for it
• Dried herbs or flowers (make sure to glue these down well) • Feathers,
shells or other natural objects • Protection charms, written normally or
in code • Lace or string for decoration or protection
And now some ideas to get you started with documentation in your Book
of Shadows:
• A protection charm
• The Wiccan Rede–or any other moral codes you may follow • Deities
you work with and connect with • Notes about a path or tradition youyou work with and connect with • Notes about a path or tradition you
may have chosen to follow (for now) for your Wicca journey • Elements
• The Sabbats and Esbats
• Divination information
• Dreams and interpretations
• Ritual work
• Spell work
• Potions
• Herbs, flowers and their properties • Different types of Magick you learn
about • Chants
• Information on magickal tools • Magickal workings and your way of
doing things
After you have taken those first steps in creating and writing your
Book of Shadows, you will enjoy building a relationship with your
book as you record more and more, whether it is in the form of notes,
drawings, found objects, clippings, artwork or anything else that you
choose to include.8.
Deities
In Wicca, the deities are gods or goddesses that we follow and worship.
There are so many deities that you could follow and many ways that you
can choose to see and worship them. There are no right or wrong
choices here. It simply depends on what feels right to you–which deities
you feel drawn to and also the path that you decide to take as a Wiccan.
Do not be put off Wicca because the idea of having a god or a
goddess doesn’t feel like your thing. Following deities is actually very
simple. A lot of Wiccans don’t think of gods and goddesses as actual
people, higher beings, someone that once existed or as all-knowing
creators of everything. Instead, we view deities as personifications of
nature. Each deity represents a different aspect of something that we
experience on this earth, including the natural world; there is a god or a
goddess to represent every single aspect of the earth and all that comes
with it. It becomes easier to connect with nature if we see aspects of it in
human form, because we find it easier to understand and visualise
looking up to, listening to and communicating with people. So, we see
deities as just human forms of nature. For example, the Armenian deity
Anahit is the goddess of fertility, healing, wisdom and water, and we think
of her as the personification of these elements and powers and the
spiritual energies surrounding them. Of course, you can also believe in
deities in the traditional way, as supernatural powers that keep whatever
they represent and look after in balance; that’s just another way of
believing in your deities.
Some Wiccans might follow a group or pantheon of deities such as the
Celtic, Norse or Egyptian gods and goddesses. It’s also a common idea
that gods and goddesses from different pantheons represent similar
things, so they are actually similar deities that have originated from and
developed and adapted in different civilisations and cultures throughout
the world. If you believe this train of thought and you are happy topotentially honour all of the deities, depending on which feels right for you
at the time, you could be an eclectic Wiccan. Or you could just choose
one group of deities to work with if you prefer and still follow this belief,
but just choose one pantheon that suits you best and you feel drawn to.
Some Wiccans only worship one or two deities and others may just
choose to work with one god or goddess if the pull towards that one deity
seems sufficient. Some Wiccans follow the traditional Gardnerian
teaching, believing there is only one god and one goddess–the god of the
sun and the goddess of the moon. There are so many deities that you
can follow from different cultures and countries. Don’t worry if it takes you
a while to find which gods and goddesses feel right for you. You can
worship deities from anywhere in the world, but there are a few common
ones that you hear about frequently in Wicca. This doesn’t mean that you
have to follow these ones, these are just a few of the options.
GREEK
Apollo–god of music, prophecy, truth, healing, the sun and light
Aphrodite–goddess of love, beauty, eternal youth and fertility
Ares–god of war
Artemis–goddess of the hunt, wild animals, chastity and childbirth
Asteria–goddess of falling stars and night-time prophecies
Athena–goddess of wisdom, strength, crafts and knowledge
Aura–goddess representing a gentle breeze Demeter–goddess of
the harvest
Eos–goddess of the dawn
Eros–god of love
Hecate–goddess of magick, witchcraft, ghosts and the night Hades–
god of the underworld
Helios–god of the sun
Hera–goddess of women, marriage and family Hermes–god of
trade, shepherds, travel and literature, particularly of poets, also
the messenger of the gods Nyx–goddess of the night
Persephone–goddess of the spring and queen of the underworldPersephone–goddess of the spring and queen of the underworld
Poseidon–god of the sea, earthquakes, floods and horses Rhea–
mother of gods and goddess of motherhood and female fertility
Selene–goddess of the moon
Styx–goddess of the river Styx which divides earth from the
underworld Thea–goddess of sight and divine light Zeus–the god
of the sky and the ruler of the Olympian gods.
ROMAN
Apollo–god of light, music and healing Aurora–goddess of the
dawn
Bacchus–god of wine, farming and fertility Ceres–goddess of the
harvest and a mother’s love Cupid–god of love
Diana–goddess of the hunt, nature and the moon Juno–goddess of
love and marriage
Jupiter–god of thunder and sky Luna–goddess of the moon
Mars–god of war
Minerva–goddess of wisdom, war, commerce, crafts and poetry
Neptune–god of the sea
Pluto–god of the underworld
Proserpine–goddess of the underworld Sol–god of the sun
Terra–goddess of the earth
Venus–goddess of love
EGYPTIAN
Amun–god of the sun, the air and life Anubis–god of the dead
Bast–goddess of protection, cats and of the home Bes–god of war,
but also of the home Hapi–god of water and fertility who brought
the annual flooding of the Nile Hathor–goddess of joy, love,the annual flooding of the Nile Hathor–goddess of joy, love,
motherhood, beauty and fertility Horus–protector of Egypt
Isis–goddess of fertility and empowerment Khensu–god of the
moon
Maat–goddess of truth, justice, stability and harmony Min–god of
fertility and male sexuality Mut–goddess, mother figure
Neith–goddess of war
Nut–goddess of the sky and the heavens Osiris–god of the afterlife
Ptah–god of craftsmen and creation
Ra–god of the sun
Sekhmet–goddess of destruction, war and healing Set–god of
disorder, storms and war
Shu–god of dry air and the earth’s atmosphere Taweret–goddess of
childbirth
Tefnut–goddess of water, moisture and rain Thoth–god of writing,
science, magick and the moon
CELTIC
Áine of Knockainey–goddess of love, crops and farms Airmid–
goddess of medicinal plants and regeneration Amaethon–god of
agriculture and luck Andraste–goddess of the moon and
divination Angus Og–god of youth, beauty and love Anu–
goddess of the moon, fertility, prosperity and comfort Arawn–
god of the underworld, revenge, war and terror Artio–goddess of
animals and fertility Bel–god representing sun and fire
Bendigeidfran–god of the arts, music, writing and prophecy
Branwen–goddess of love and beauty
Bres–god of agriculture and fertility Brigit/ Brigid–goddess of fire,
sun, hearth, fertility, crafts, inspiration, home and divination
Cailleach–goddess of the winter months Ceridwen–goddess of
poetic inspiration Cernunnos–the horned god of nature, the
underworld, wealth and physical love and masculine energy TheDagda–god of protection, weather and knowledge and the father
god of Ireland Danu–goddess of water, wizards, magick and
wisdom Latobius–god of mountains and sky Lugh–god of
craftsmanship and light
Manannan–god of the sea
Maponus–god of music and poetry
Morrigan–goddess of war
Nuada–god of war
Rhiannon–goddess of horses
Taliesin–god of poets
Taranis–god of thunder and the wheel
NORSE
Aegir–god of the sea
Balder–a gentle, pure and wise god
Bragi–god of poetry and eloquence
Eir–goddess of healing
Forseti–god of justice
Freyja–goddess of fertility, beauty and war Frigg–goddess of love,
fertility and motherhood Gefion–goddessof fertility
Heimdall–god of light
Hel–ruler of the underworld
Lofn–goddess of marriages
Loki–the trickster of the Norse gods Njord–god of the wind and sea
Odin–king of the Norse gods; god of poetry, war, death and
wisdom Sif–goddess of fertility
Sjöfn–goddess of passion
Skadi–goddess of winter, the hunt and mountains Thor–god of
thunder
Ullr–god of archery and skiing
Var–goddess of marriage oaths Vör–goddess who knowseverything
SLAVIC
Dažbog–god of the sun
Jarilo–god of war, spring, fertility and harvest Lada–goddess of
love, marriage, summer, beauty and fertility Morana–goddess of
harvest, winter, death and witchcraft Perun–god of thunder and
lightning
Rod–the supreme god
Svarog–god of fire
Svetovid–god of war and fertility
Triglav–god of war
Veles–god of earth, forests, waters and the underworld Vesna–
goddess of spring, love and youth Zaria–goddess of beauty
Živa–goddess of love and fertility
JAPANESE
Amaterasu–goddess of the sun and the universe Benzaiten–goddess
of literature, music, love and wealth Ebisu–god of fishermen,
luck, prosperity and crops Fujin–god of the wind
Inari–goddess of prosperity, fertility, rice, tea, sake, agriculture and
industry Jizo–the guardian of children, childbirth, women and
travellers Kannon–goddess of mercy
Raijin–god of lightening, storms and thunderAFRICAN
Anayaroli–god of harvest and wealth (the Temne of Sierra Leone)
Asa–god of protection and mercy (the Kamba of Kenya) Asase
Yaa–goddess of fertility (the Ashanti of West Africa) Chiuta–god
of rain (the Tumbuka in Malawi) Inanna–goddess of sky, war and
love (the Banyarwanda) Jok–god of rain (Zaire and Uganda)
Mungo–god of rain (Giriama of Kenya) Ngami–goddess of the
moon
Ochumare–goddess of rainbows (the Yoruba) Ogun–god of war and
iron (the Nago and the Yoruba) Olorun–creator god (the Yoruba)
Oshun–the goddess of love and fertility (the Yoruba) Oya–goddess
of storms (the Yoruba)
Rock-Sens–god of weather (the Serer of Gambia) Ruhanga–creator
god and god of fertility, disease and death (the Banyoro of
Uganda) Shango–god of thunder, war and magick (the Yoruba)
Yemaya–goddess of the seas and rivers (the Yoruba) Yemoja–
goddess of the river, women and children (the Yoruba)Why Explore Wicca?
Wicca has had such a positive impact on all areas of my life. So many
elements of the faith go hand in hand with improved physical and mental
well-being and positive emotional health and relationships.9.
Mental Health Benefits
Thankfully, mental health issues are recognised and discussed much
more openly nowadays. A question that I am frequently asked is, can I
still be a Wiccan if I have a mental health issue?
My answer is always the same. Yes, of course you can. There are so
many different mental health issues that people struggle with daily. You
can work alongside them to develop your Wicca journey, hopefully
improving or at least helping your mental health. It’s always important to
bear in mind that when you are feeling highly emotional or just not okay,
it’s fine to take time for yourself. Don’t perform spell work or rituals when
you’re not feeling up to it. Always consider the law of three, if you’re in
two minds about doing magick, and make sure you are in a neutral state.
It doesn’t make you a lesser Wiccan if you don’t feel up to doing your
tarot cards one day or celebrating a Sabbat. Wicca is a lifelong journey
and if you intend to be in it for the long run, there’s always another time–
everything happens in a cycle.
Having a Wicca journey can create something to focus on, to distract
your mind–giving you something to look forward to and discover each
day. This can be a huge benefit while struggling with mental health
issues. Even when the world feels like a difficult, flat place, Wicca helps
you look into the natural beauty of it all, making you realise that, no, this
isn’t ‘it’: there is more.
I also feel that Wicca encourages you to go outside and experience
the natural world. The fundamentals of the faith do not need the day-to-
day things we are distracted by. It helps you take a look around, notice
plants, trees, the stars, the moon and the sun, aspects of the world you
may not always take notice of. It can help you see how beautiful the
world is, even when that seems to disappear when you are struggling.
Not to mention, there are lots of aspects of Wicca that involve mental,
physical and spiritual healing, which can help to balance your mind andemotions. Healing with crystals, herbal remedies, healing using spells
and also, the most important, meditation.
Meditation can help numerous aspects of your life: everyday life can offer
so much stress, especially when dealing with mental health issues.
Things that can hit people without mental health issues hard can hit
those with them harder. Meditation helps you escape; it makes you see
the world from a bird’s-eye view and your problems appear minuscule
sometimes or, at least, more manageable. It helps balance your mind
and body, relaxes every sense and taps into the parts of your brain that
are subconscious to help your mind work through problems you may not
be able to deal with on a day-to-day basis. It can help you make the
correct decisions and lead your mind to what you truly want, which will
inevitably benefit you.
Wicca can benefit the way you think, feel and allow you to experience
beautiful aspects of the world, but it is not a cure. We require help from
all around us. Remember what we said about science? It’s all magick.
There’s nothing wrong with not being able to cure your mental illness with
meditation and healthy eating alone: sometimes you require help from
the magick of science and medication–and that’s totally okay.
CONFIDENCECONFIDENCE
As well as being a factor that can contribute to your mental health, Wicca
can also help you gain confidence, which, in turn, can benefit your mental
health too. Early on in my Wicca journey, I noticed that my faith helped
me create an identity, not based on how everyone else sees me, but on
how I see myself. Discovering aspects of Wicca, such as which path suits
you best, the deities you feel attracted to, crystals you feel a connection
with, tools you use that really do ‘choose you’, can make you feel as
though you are a part of something larger–they did me. Wicca makes you
feel as though there is a place for everyone.
Should you keep your beliefs private or talk about them? Sometimes
exploring other Wiccans’ journeys can be amazing and also contribute to
your knowledge and this may require talking to people. Your confidence
may be lacking, especially when it comes to talking to people, but finding
a place and starting a journey can give you a common ground with other
Wiccans. You may want to go to events for your new faith, take part in
forums and download apps that help you connect with fellow Wiccans.
Your curiosity and ambition to learn in the faith can push you to want to
speak to others following similar paths to you. Confidence can also be
gained in places that you might never have imagined, such as performing
magick. This can be a physical task that sometimes takes action,
speaking, asking and requesting from the universe, which require
massive amounts of power and intent. The actual performance aspect of
spell work and rituals can build your confidence, kind of like practising a
performance before you go on stage in a play. Magick can also give you
a massive sense of self-empowerment; having control over aspects of
your life you may not have felt before can build up the confidence inside
you to create change, which a lot of young boys and girls struggle with in
the modern world. Becoming power-hungry can be a problem, though, so
remember to keep humble and balanced throughout your practices.
Balance can also help you gain confidence, accepting that everything is
as it is: nobody is better than anyone else, no one is worse off, we are all
at balance with each other, we do not need to be in competition with each
other because we are all individual people–just because someone may
be skinnier than you or have more Instagram followers, that doesn’t make
them better than you. You are just as relevant and as powerful as they
are, the earth will serve you the same as it will them. The world is a gift toappreciate; without it, there would be nothing, no life, no people. None of
the superficial and fake aspects of the world would matter. We are all
one. All of us are original, yet we are all made from the same thing.
MY EXPERIENCE WITH MENTAL HEALTH AND WICCA
Like a lot of people, I have struggled with my own mental health issues.
While these were ongoing, I discovered witchcraft. I had times where I
felt I didn’t physically have the power I needed to perform magick, but I
always came back to it. It took me a while to discover magick will always
be there; it’s not going anywhere. During my recovery, I discovered
Wicca and, in my opinion, it benefitted me more than I realised at the
time; it let my mind shift to something else. I wanted to get out of bed in
the morning because I wanted to know more. For me, it opened up
another layer of the world, giving me a different perspective on what I had
been going through and making me feel like I had all the power that I
needed. If I had the intent and power to perform magick and discover a
new path in life, what else was there to discover? Surely, I could conquer
depression and deal with my past? Which, thankfully, I did. I came out of
the other side much stronger because of it too. Wicca for me did all of the
above, as well as teaching me to find my true self–and help others with
this too. Yes, other things helped, therapy included, but Wicca built
something inside me that I had previously missed out on during my times
dealing with mental health issues. We all struggle with aspects of life at
times but, truly, Wicca helps me through every day.10.
Meditation
Meditation is a practice where one typically sits or lies down and focuses
on mind, body and soul. Meditation is about achieving a state of
awareness in a higher form. It can help you reach a state where you are
completely aware of yourself and the moment around you, but your mind
is not thinking anything, where you are an observer of your thoughts but
you do not let them overwhelm you. Meditation can help you enter your
subconscious mind and that can lead you to gain a different perspective
on aspects of your life. You can meditate in order to find answers and
help you change your frame of mind. Sometimes, thoughts and answers
come after meditation so it’s always helpful to write down your findings
soon after you’ve finished. Meditation has many benefits; it can help with
physical and mental health, reduce stress, anxiety, ageing and many
other aspects of your well-being. I would suggest trying meditation to
anyone, whatever their faith, as it can be a great benefit to life, as well as
a major tool in our Wicca journeys.
MEDITATION AND MAGICK
Meditation can be a really effective tool in Wicca, the Sabbats and
Esbats, for magickal workings or even to connect with the universe and
the divine.
First, it can help your spell and ritual work–visualising and meditation
are key to putting us in the right headspace for magickal practices. (See
Part 3, Spell Work, for visualising.) It can help calm you and help you let
go of problems and focus completely on the intent for your ritual or spell
work.
You may use meditation for looking for answers to elements of your
journey, for example you may do a tarot reading, or some form ofdivination, and the answer you receive from it doesn’t make a lot of
sense–you can’t quite join the dots together about why you have been
dealt these cards and how they relate to the situation at hand. So, you
may want to take the cards that you received, lay them out in front of you
or hold them and meditate on the meanings behind them and how they
connect to your life. This will assist in finding the answers.
Meditation can be used with other tools to connect with them–meditate
with your wand or athame (ritual tool) to gain a bond with them. Or there
could just be an issue you’d like to gain insight into in your life, that you
need answers to before using a spell to solve it. You could take a crystal
that is relevant for the situation, hold it in one hand and the crystal and its
vibrational energy will help you focus more on the subject you have been
given and help you find the answer to your problem.
There are many ways you can use meditation in Wicca and you will
discover the endless possibilities as your journey continues. With
everything in Wicca, practice makes perfect and it may take you a while
to be able to reach that perfect state in meditation. So don’t be
discouraged if it’s hard at first, it just takes a little brain training and
finding the method that’s correct for you to get you there. When you start,
I would recommend meditating for around twenty minutes to begin with, it
can be very intense. If you’re meditating before a spell or ritual and you
need to focus on an intent, this could be longer, but make sure your
energy is high afterwards for your magick, maybe have a snack and a
drink at the ready before you continue.
There are many different ways you can meditate, but let’s start with
the basics.
MEDITATION METHODS
BASIC MEDITATION
This first method is a great way to begin with meditation techniques.
First, find yourself a place where you will not be disturbed–if it’s inside,
set the scene, create an area that is relaxing, tidy, a place where nobody
can disturb you. (See Part 3, Spell Work for setting the scene.) If it is
sunny, you may want to take your meditation outside, this is where Ialways feel happiest meditating and a lot of Wiccans like to be
surrounded by the natural world as it’s where they relax and find a
balance.
If you are outside, find a quiet place away from the hustle and bustle.
Sit on the ground, legs crossed, back straight and let your limbs go limp
and heavy. Or alternatively you can lie down, legs straight, arms
comfortably placed, or you can sit on a chair.
Close your eyes, take a few deep breaths and, as you do so, with
each breath breathe in; as you release your breath, picture all of your
thoughts and problems of the day disappearing. Focus on your breath
and let your everyday mind and thoughts release themselves and your
subconscious take over, until you reach a clear-minded state of higher
awareness. If this doesn’t come naturally to you, it may take a while, but
keep going. If your thoughts seem to take over, focus on your breathing.
Let your subconscious mind take over so that you no longer feel
present in the world. Everything is fine and at hand and there’s nothing
else you need to think about other than your subconscious mind in this
time and place. Be and observe the thoughts and feelings you are
having, but don’t focus on them–you are keeping a clear head.
If there’s a situation at hand or a purpose to your meditation, put it in
your subconscious mind now. Follow the thoughts you are having and the
emotions you are feeling. Sit quietly and focus on it until you acquire the
concentration or receive the answers you need.
You may want to set a timer or just let yourself meditate until you feel
ready to stop. You can meditate for five minutes or up to an hour, or
however long you please.
MOON MEDITATION
Moon meditation, of course, always works best at a full moon, or a
specific time of the moon cycle relevant to your intent. Find a comfortable
place outside, preferably where you can see the moon. Make sure you
are wrapped up warm for this as meditation can sometimes make your
body temperature drop.
Follow the basic meditation method: this time once you are into your
subconscious mind state, picture the moon up above you and visualise
floating up into it and you and the moon becoming one. Explore theenergy the moon is surrounding you with.
This method is commonly used to bond with the moon, the goddess
and the universe. It can also be used to focus, especially before
performing magick, as we do everything by the moon and the sun. We
draw down the moon’s energy in order to gain concentration and intent
for our practices. There are best times of the month in which to meditate,
depending on the intent. (See more on the moon in Part 1, Magick and
Part 3, Wiccan Holidays and the Wheel of the Year.) Be sure to always
drift from the moon and return to yourself and your headspace after you
have fulfilled the purpose of your meditation.
OBJECT MEDITATION
Start by following the same method as the basic meditation. If you have
the object–it could be a tool you want to bond with or a crystal you are
using to help you find answers, your tarot cards or something more
personal that you feel will benefit your thoughts and feelings during
meditation in order to find the answers you seek. Maybe you’re trying to
find peace in your mind about a recent break-up, possibly holding some
memento of your relationship and meditating with it to find some insight
into letting this person go. On the other hand, you could be trying to find
an object and wanting to tap into your subconscious in order to find it,
and see where you last had it; you may have to just visualise the object in
your mind.
The best way to meditate with the object is to get into the state we
previously spoke about, where your subconscious mind is taking over
your conscious mind, and visualise the object or hold the object in front of
you and imagine you are inside it or disappearing into it, as if you and it
were becoming one. Receive the energy of the object and what it brings
to you, seek what you are looking for and look around inside the object
until you find your answer.
MANTRA MEDITATION
This is a meditation during which you say a specific word or sound over
and over again and the vibration of the word coordinates your body andthe universe. You may have a stereotypical image of meditation, with
people sitting cross-legged, meditating while saying the word ‘om’: this is
mantra meditation! You can, of course, say the word ‘om’, but many
people find their own mantra to work with. The best place to do this is
outside.
I would recommend drawing down the moon for this and using the
moon meditation technique to start with. Reach the part of the moon
meditation when you’re drawing down the moon and you’re about to
dissolve into it, then hear a whisper coming from the stars around it–a
sound or a single word. This can be used as your mantra. Once you have
your mantra, you can meditate with it. Start with the basic meditation
method, but instead repeat your mantra slowly over and over again, and
then repeat the intent of why you are meditating, then take a deep breath
and do it again. Some like to do this just to start off with until their
subconscious mind has taken over and their thoughts are where they
need to be; some like to do it throughout their meditation because it
keeps them regulated with the universe.
BREATHING MEDITATION
This is a very common form of meditation that can be most effective for
beginners. Start by repeating the first basic meditation technique up until
you have just relaxed your muscles. Now focus on your breathing, focus
on how it feels, the timing of it, the sound of it. I always like to focus on
my breathing to start with then let it flow naturally. I breathe in for four
counts, pushing my stomach out as I do so, then out for four counts,
pulling my stomach in as I do this. You can do this for as long as it takes
to let your subconscious mind take over. Then focus on the intent of this
meditation.11.
Self-Care
Learning to take time for yourself is extremely important, even if it’s just
ten minutes each day to take a little ‘me’ time. So many of us live crazy
lives, full of work, fun, hobbies, exercise and travel. Sometimes it’s
difficult to take just a few minutes to stop and appreciate things and to
look after your well-being.
Wicca helps you to take some personal time for yourself. A lot of
elements of the faith require making time to stop and focus on your
practices and workings in order for them to be effective and making time
to explore all of the elements of the wonderful natural world.
There are lot of ways in Wicca we can make time for ourselves that
can benefit us; in general, it takes us away from the craziness of life we
endure every day, and puts us in our own space to work on our journeys
within Wicca, inevitably to make our lives the way we want them to be.
As we discussed in the last chapter, meditation can be an effective
way to help you take time for yourself. Meditation places you in a different
mindset and gives you time to centre yourself with the universe as well as
helping you with Wicca too. I use meditation as a tool within several
aspects of my practices–to relax myself and clear my mind, to help me
focus, to work through problems and gain insight, and to connect with the
divine and elements of the universe.
Also, in Wicca, we obviously have our spell work, rituals and our
Sabbats to make time for. When other faiths take a break for their
holidays, such as Christmas and Easter, we take the time for our eight
Sabbats and our twelve main Esbats. We also take time to celebrate the
seasons, the moon, the sun and other natural occurrences. These
festivities are fantastic opportunities to celebrate and perform rituals, but
also to relax, slow down the pace of life and let yourself re-energise.
Spell and ritual work can require longer periods of time, depending on
the complexity of the workings. Plan ahead and set aside a good chunkof time.
Divination can also be a good way of getting away from the outside
world and stepping into a calm, focused energy. Most forms of divination
require complete concentration and taking time to focus on something
specific, taking time to sort through issues and situations you may want
to gain insight into. This can be a great way to cope; putting your life in
bird’s-eye view for a short period of time gives you a second to look over
everything in your day, week or month. Divination can be performed at
any time, whenever you feel you need to take a second for this. It
promotes calm and clarity, strengthening your mind and your focus, and
renews energies.
I also feel that Wicca encourages you to explore the outside world,
whether it is learning about and searching for a new herb to collect for
your next potion, getting outside to do some meditation or looking for a
tree to create a wand from. When I go for a walk for any purpose that is
to do with Wicca, or even when I just need a break from life and a breath
of fresh air, I find that leaving technology behind can help me connect
with nature on another level. Many of my practices in Wicca benefit from
being away from technology. Even though social media can benefit us in
so many ways, it can be a distraction, and freeing your mind from the
constant stimulus also helps to calm you.
HOW TO MAKE TIME FOR YOURSELF?
In practice, when it actually comes down to making personal time for
yourself, it’s not that easy to do. First, managing and organising your life
is extremely important; possibly keeping a journal and writing down tasks
that you would like to get done today, including your very important
downtime, maybe also a Wicca goal for the day. I personally set myself
an aim to learn something new within Wicca every weekday. I wake up
with the goal in mind and I often do this before bed. I don’t have goals at
the weekend because less organisation is more relaxing, allowing me to
just take things as they come.
Arranging your life a little more and getting your tasks done at a
manageable pace can create time. Accept that you are only one person;
you can only focus on one thing at a time and you can’t grow a flower in a
day!Step back in your day whenever you are able to have a break or a
second to breathe and do something nice for yourself, whether it’s just
getting outside to see the sun, reading a few pages of your favourite book
or getting something tasty to eat from a nearby bakery; take a walk and
embrace your surroundings.
Also, giving up aspects of your life that no longer serve you can be
extremely liberating, creating more time and more mental space. This
could mean not checking your phone for an hour in the morning or not
wasting your time on something unnecessary that you don’t enjoy.
Take self-care seriously. Don’t brush it aside and think that it’s not
important. Whether it is taking time for some divination or meditation,
clearing space to make time for your spell or ritual work or even a lovely
hot bath every day, see it as important as your other tasks. It can benefit
your mental health, Wicca practices and your well-being.12.
Creativity
Wicca is a faith that encourages creativity and self-expression. Some
people like to express their Wicca faith in how they dress; for instance,
wearing a pentagram around your neck if you’re a Wiccan, pagan or
witch. Some also choose to dress with a ‘witchy’ vibe–lots of black
clothing and a black hat to match. You might also incorporate elements of
your path into your outfits; for example, people who practise Draconic
Wicca may want to incorporate symbols and representations of dragons
in their clothing and jewellery, while Green Wiccans might like to wear
eco-friendly, natural garments. Some Wiccans like to dress to relate to
the Sabbats, maybe wearing colours and symbols that coordinate with
the specific celebrations and seasons. Obviously, some Wiccans don’t
incorporate their faith into their style at all: it’s completely up to you.
What I would recommend is to dress to express how you feel on the
inside. Wicca can bring out aspects of yourself that you may not have
discovered before and, as your confidence grows, it’s great to dress in
clothing that just makes you happy! Personally, I like to dress according
to how I am feeling or to reflect the natural world and relevant
celebrations. I might wear lots of black clothing in the winter to represent
the cold earth and darker days, and in summer I love bright-yellow
dresses covered in sunflowers.
You might be surprised to learn that spell work is another extremely
creative element of Wicca. Performing magick is inventive in itself and
has elements of self-expression too; everyone finds their own methods of
how they like to cast spells and perform rituals. You can also cast spells
to simply increase creativity in different elements of your life where you
feel it is needed. Also, there is honestly nothing more satisfying (to me,
anyway) than creating my own personal magick, potion, spell or ritual.
Researching the necessary elements of a spell–herbs, crystals and other
ingredients–and then forming it in your own way is in art form in itself.This can bring an overwhelming sense of fulfilment and can make you
feel more confident with your magickal practices.
You can also get creative with Wicca in your home, making lots of
different hangings, symbols and ornaments with magickal properties or
that you can bless, to place around your own personal spaces. You can
also display pentagram ornaments and other protective symbols,
representations of relevant deities and Wiccan emblems such as the sun,
the moon and other elements of nature. Living in an environment which
reflects your beliefs can inspire you to express yourself and your faith
freely.
The Sabbats also involve many activities that require creating home-
made items for your altar and for decoration. Enjoyable activities include
painting eggs for Ostara, creating talismans, seasonal wreaths or even
dressing up at Samhain, one of the main Sabbats, as your favourite
ghoul. The Sabbats also bring great opportunities to get creative with
seasonal gifts, such as baked goods and crystals incorporated into
jewellery.
You can also be inventive and resourceful when it comes to creating
your tools. Even though, nowadays, tools are easily available to
purchase, many Wiccans still prefer to make their own because they
believe that it adds to the bond between them and their special items. An
example of this might be a wand. Lots of Wiccans and witches like to
make their wands from scratch, initially collecting the wood at the tree,
through to decorating them with symbols, feathers, paint and crystals.
You can create pretty much any tool that you might want to use from the
natural world; you can search for beautiful shells to burn your incense in
or collect stones to mark or decorate to make into runes. The possibilities
found in the wild are endless. Wicca is about using what is around you,
not about how much money you have to spend.
As I mentioned in here, getting creative with your Book of Shadows
can also be lots of fun! I like to decorate each page to correspond with
the particular subject, filling it with drawings, paintings, colourful items
and dried flowers. I’m an extremely visual person, and I’m aware that
everything that I see can affect my mood. So, creating my Book of
Shadows to reflect my experiences and ideas, using relevant, imaginative
visuals, gives me great satisfaction. Opportunities for creativity are
endless within Wicca; it excites and inspires you, helping you to expressparts of yourself in ways that you possibly cannot even imagine.13.
Kindness
The law of three really made me realise how important kindness is, to
yourself and to others. Remember the fundamental Wiccan teaching, ‘If it
harms none, do what you will’. Whenever I have debated doing
something when I wasn’t sure if I was acting with good intentions, I
always looked to the law of three to help me determine if my actions were
correct. It taught me that being kind doesn’t just benefit others, but how I
feel about myself and the earth too. It also affects how others felt about
me and their support for me; this has helped me enormously in life. The
law taught me not to act out of anger or sadness, because that energy
would return to me. This doesn’t mean that you can’t be angry or sad;
these are natural feelings that everyone has, but there are other ways to
deal with strong negative emotions and other solutions that don’t cause
more harm. Sometimes it is overwhelmingly difficult to follow this, but
fighting bad with bad doesn’t make it good, nor does it solve anything.
A large part of Wicca is understanding that there is balance in this
earth, bad and good, and accepting it, realising that there can be no good
without bad and the only way to move past it is to treat bad with good. If
aspects of your life lose that balance, it can end in your unhappiness.
This doesn’t mean you have to let people be horrible to you and be kind
to them in return; simply walking away or trying to understand other
people’s anger can help both parties and benefit your well-being and
theirs. Life can throw you confusing and frustrating situations. When I am
confused or angry about someone’s actions, meditation on the subject
helps me find peace with it and understanding for the other parties, and
this helps me to solve the situation in my mind. It’s always good to give
yourself time to think over a situation that may upset you, think about
solutions and allow yourself to calm down before acting, go with your
instinct and solve it in the most balanced way that you can.
Wicca also encourages a sense of positivity that many people struggleto find. It gives you a sense of freedom which, throughout childhood and
most of your teenage life, is sometimes hard to feel. It gives you freedom
to take a path you want within the faith and gives you time to have all to
yourself.
THE IMPORTANCE OF KINDNESS
Being kind and spreading positive energy may sound like a hippy-dippy
cliché, but it can truly benefit yourself and others in many ways and
create a certain mentality that allows you to conquer challenging
situations relatively easily. Remembering kindness and compassion to
yourself and to other people can create balance that can benefit mental
health and strengthen your Wicca practice.
Obviously the law of three applies here; if you put out positivity and
are kind and balanced, that energy can return to you three times, in all
situations. For example, if you cheat on someone, this will hurt that
person–even if they have done wrong too, the chances are you’re not
treating them correctly. This action or the energies around this action will
return to you, causing you more harm or further problems surrounding
the situation, whereas if you no longer love them and want to be with
someone else, leave them in a kind way, explaining yourself fairly,
honestly and how you deem appropriate and that energy you put out
there will return back to you.
It can also help with energy within Wicca. Having a positive energy
and putting out positive energy can help with the accuracy of your spells;
we all have down days, but being kind can help keep silly minor problems
at bay, which allows you to focus on your craft and your faith. Getting rid
of these negative aspects in your life and focusing on the kinder, more
honest approach will solve a lot and prevent future problems with the
situations you have at hand, and allow you to focus on what is real. It’s
important to remember nobody is below or above you, and if you
encounter people that treat you as if you are not worth their time,
remember they will get their energy returned to them; this allows you to
focus on the divine and helps you to be more considerate to other
humans, animals and the earth.
Also, putting out negative energy all the time can allow other negative
energies/shadows and spirits to feed off it, draining your power and otherpositive energy you may hold. I was an extremely confused younger teen
who made a lot of mistakes, and it took me a while to note that I was just
running a vicious circle around myself, making my life and well-being
increasingly worse. I was never a ‘bad’ person–I never wanted to hurt
anyone and I’ve always felt extremely guilty about the smallest of things,
but I was extremely confused. There were many times when someone
would be unkind to me or I was thrown a situation that hurt me and it
would confuse me. I’d think, how can they say that to me? Why are they
doing this? Why is this happening? And I would act out of anger, fighting
them with negativity because I had no idea how to deal with the situation
otherwise–and that continued in a cycle because I was completely
unaware that the world was actually not against me; I just had life thrown
at me, didn’t know how to handle it and made it a lot worse instead of
dealing with it correctly–problems all teenagers and young adults face.
Even before I discovered Wicca, I realised the fault in my actions. I
was having an argument with an old friend about something irrelevant,
which at the time seemed so important, and we were both angry. I knew I
had done wrong and so had she. So I stopped, apologised for my anger
and asked her why she was upset. I apologised for my actions and also
explained my upset. She soon realised the way she’d hurt me and we
worked out our issues.
If I’m angry and I decide to tweet about someone or bitch about
someone behind their back, it’s going to cause issues and the people
involved will react badly. So, I simply stopped and it changed everything;
there were some issues I removed from my life, like people who just
wanted to cause negativity and situations I was unhappy with, but as time
went by things improved, problems didn’t seem to be as frequent, I felt
happier and started to enjoy my life instead of worrying about petty
arguments and negativity.
Being kind changed my perspective on everything and created a calm
life for me which relieved issues I didn’t even think being ‘kind’ could
affect. Then, upon discovering the law of three, it made sense finally–the
way I felt and my actions–and helped me improve even more. All I sought
was tolerance and love. I wanted acceptance, happiness, love for myself
and people to love and, upon seeking this, I got it. There are actions you
can take to be more kind–studying the law of three is a great place to
start.WAYS TO BE MORE KIND
Try to understand. When you’re in a situation where you are adamant
that you are correct it can be confusing and hard to see the other
person’s point of view, especially if you are not on good terms with this
person. Really try to put yourself in someone else’s shoes and see the
issues that they’re facing–this can help you sort the problems and, if
you have to, let go of the issues and walk away.
Don’t fight bad with bad. The old saying ‘kill with kindness’ can truly be
the cure; even if it pains you to do so, it can remove the problems
completely and prevent problems for the future. For example, if
somebody says something unkind about your appearance, understand
where it is coming from. It’s not about you at all; unkind remarks are
always about the person who is making them. It’s possibly jealously
and anger built up inside of them. Instead of making a rude remark
back to them about their appearance, simply say something like, ‘I
really like how I look, I feel super great today; you look nice too’, even
if you have to grit your teeth while doing so and this person irks you to
your very core. This removes their power–and they may realise that
they were being unkind or just think twice about being unkind to you
again. I’m not saying don’t stand up for yourself, rather just speak the
absolute truth and express your opinions with positivity.
Be more kind to all living things, not just humans. Understanding the
earth and realising that you need to take care of it and give thanks to it
is a valuable consideration for all people which also reaps benefits, as
the earth then repays you. Similarly, treating animals in a kind, loving
and respectful way benefits you because they give love back and
because of how that makes you feel. Everything is made from the
same matter–humans, animals and the natural world.
This can also create understanding for humans too, helping you
understand diversity within people, which is very important–you can’t
have respect for just one person, then hate everything else, because
we are all made up from the same elements. To hate one thing would
be to hate everything. Remember, without any aspect of this earth,
there would not be another. We are all just as important as each other,no matter our race, our gender, our sexuality, and we should be proud
of each other and love each other in the way we would like in return.
Stop dealing with your problems in an unhealthy way. Yes, this means
stop tweeting about people, stop making indirect comments about
people online, stop speaking unkindly about people behind their backs
and stop creating problems that don’t exist. Many aspects of Wicca
can help you with this and also help you to find the true meaning of
your problems and stop creating fake ones. If you have a problem, and
you’re confused about what to do, explore avenues regarding how to
sort it, don’t make it worse because you’re angry. That will only cause
more hurt and further problems. If you have an issue, deal with it face
on, speak to people in a kind manner and try to resolve matters. Don’t
let it fester inside you and ruin your mental health, thereby causing
more problems.How to Get Started
It is incredibly easy to begin your Wicca journey as soon as you feel
ready. Wicca is not about having the correct equipment or mastering
extremely difficult techniques, and you might be surprised at how easily it
becomes a part of your life.14.
Wiccan Holidays and the Wheel of the Year
In Wicca, we follow the natural occurrences of the universe and we do
everything by the earth’s natural cycle. The Wheel or the Wheel of the
Year is a circle of time; it’s a cycle of seasons, of birth, growth and death.
It represents the full cycle of the seasons according to the sun.
As you know, the same natural occurrences happen every year. We
have a cold winter, where the days become shorter and the nights get
longer and the sun dims for a period of time. Then the sun is born again,
and the wheel turns and spring comes around. There is life sprouting
from our earth and the world gets to its peak of fertility. Then summer
comes along and growth, life and warmth are at their peak. Then autumn
arrives and the warm earth begins to cool, we feel the cold returning and
the earth goes into hibernation, and then the next year this amazing cycle
happens all over again. The Wheel of the Year is made up of eight
sections or eight main natural changes in the earth that we all celebrate;
these are called the Sabbats. By marking and celebrating these festivals
it also helps us synchronise with the earth.THE SABBATS
The Sabbats are in essence ‘Wiccan holidays’ that almost all Wiccans
and some witches celebrate. Instead of following the holidays that are
related to Christian festivals, we celebrate the traditionally pagan festivals
that many of the Christian festivals were adapted from. There are eight
Sabbat celebrations which all tie in to the four seasons of the year,
winter, spring, summer and autumn. The Sabbats are here to help us
celebrate the natural world and the earth’s cycle that we couldn’t live
without, while also honouring our faith and practices and our deities. We
celebrate all aspects of life and death and everything that they bring.
There are four main Sabbats: Samhain, Imbolc, Beltane and Lammas
(Lughnasadh). These greater Sabbats always occur when the earth’s
energy is at its peak. They were traditionally known as the ‘fire festivals’
honouring the sun gods. The lesser Sabbats mark the points where one
season transitions to the next, the astronomical beginning of a new
season. They always occur on the solstice or equinox. Solstice is a term
for the two occasions of the year when the sun is directly above either the
furthest point north or the furthest point south of the equator that it ever
reaches. The equinox is a term for another twice-yearly occurrence when
the sun crosses the equator, so day and night are at equal lengths.
YULE (LESSER SABBAT)
Also known as the winter solstice
WHEN IS YULE?
On the shortest day and longest night of the year
Northern hemisphere
20–24 December
Southern hemisphere
20–23 June
WHAT IS YULE?Yule, also known as the winter solstice, is the celebration of the shortest
day and longest night of the year. The sun reaches its southernmost
point in the sky in the Wheel of the Year’s cycle. Yule is the celebration of
the abundance of light, we are celebrating even though the darkness has
taken over our green earth; we are aware that from this day forward the
days will become lighter. Also, the sun king is now returning and will
begin to thrive. It’s a time for renewal in all aspects and makes us aware
that the brighter, longer days are near. At this time, fires were traditionally
burnt by the Celts in order to frighten off the wintery cold and to welcome
the sun.
HOW TO CELEBRATE IT
If you are not aware, Christmas as we know it was traditionally the pagan
holiday Yule. Many ways that you can celebrate Yule are similar to the
ways that Christmas is traditionally celebrated. So, you can decorate pine
trees and yule logs etc. as many of these rituals are meaningful to both
holidays. There are tons of things you can do and everyone will have
their own way of celebrating just as many people have their own
individual ways of celebrating Thanksgiving or Christmas. Here are a few
ideas:
ACTIVITIES
Decorate a Yule tree: around this time of year it’s a tradition for pagans
to bring pine trees into their homes and hang food on them for
wandering spirits, so that on the coldest day of the year the spirits
have somewhere to reside and food for this day and night.
Start planning for the future and the warmer days to come.
Write your goals for the next year in your Book of Shadows.
Plan spells that you would like to try out in the coming months.
Make plans for your herb garden.
Burn small pieces of pine in a cauldron for good luck in the new year.
Bring old pine into your home, for protection and protection spells.Create an evergreen wreath to hang on your door. This represents
continuous life on this earth, how life and warmth will always return to
the Wheel of the Year even after a long and cold winter. The wreath
can be created with mistletoe (fabulous for healing, protection and this
plant represents growth and fertility). Or you can simply have mistletoe
in your home too to symbolise these positive properties. Holly can be
combined with mistletoe, as it represents the marriage of the sun
returning to earth. Holly is also amazing for its protective purposes
alone. Ivy, which can represent everlasting life, including growth of the
natural earth, can also be included. Of course, you could also include
many other seasonal plants and maybe create the base from pine; this
is amazing for protection, particularly relevant to this Sabbat.
Celebrate the Sabbat with a meal with Yule-related food for your loved
ones.
Sing solstice carols.
Spells such as fire spells, prosperity spells, new beginnings, Yuletide
charms, and peace and luck for the months to come, are all great to
cast at this time.
ALTAR IDEAS
Decorate your altar at this time of the year with relevant decorations to
honour the Sabbat and give thanks to you deities.
• Make use of the seasonal colours of red, white, black and green. They
represent warmth and the darkest and coldest night of the year, as well
as the warmer green days that are on their way.
• Mistletoe
• Pine cones
• Ivy
• Yule log
• White and black ribbons represent the cold and dark days surrounding
you.
• Though it might seem irrelevant, pictures of the sun can be great; this
welcomes the sun king back and honours the warmer days to come.FOOD AND DRINK
Good foods and drinks for around this time of year are anything with
strong, warm and spicy flavours. This honours and welcomes the return
of the sun, while also warming you up. Suggestions are:
• Spicy food such as curries
• Cinnamon-flavoured or spiced cakes
• Ginger tea
• Hot apple cider
• Spiced mulled wine or wassail
• Seasoned soups
• Spiced buttermilk bread
• Nuts
CRYSTALS
Relevant crystals to carry around with you this time of the year, to
meditate with, to use in divination and spell work and to place at your
altar are:
• Bloodstone
• Clear quartz
• Emerald
• Garnet
• Citrine
HERBS
Herbs that are relevant at this time of the year are seasonal plants and
also those that represent warmth. You can dry these herbs at your altar
for future use; they’re amazing for cooking and making teas
(depending on what they are and if they’re edible) as well as using
them for magickal workings too.
• Mistletoe
• Fir• Fir
• Oak leaves
• Pine needles
• Camomile
• Cinnamon
• Cloves
• Nutmeg
INCENSE
You might need incense to use around Yule time during casting
circles, burning at your altar, for cleansing and consecrating, as well
as for magickal workings. Good examples are:
• Cinnamon
• Cedar wood
• Pine (all winter tree scents)
• Bayberry
• Frankincense
IMBOLC (GREATER SABBAT)
Also known as Brigid’s Day or Candlemas
WHEN IS IMBOLC?
Northern hemisphere
2 February
Southern hemisphere
2 August
WHAT IS IMBOLC?
Imbolc, or Brigid’s Day, is a celebration of the earth waking up and
warming up; it is a preparation for spring. Winter is coming to an endwarming up; it is a preparation for spring. Winter is coming to an end
and the sun king is becoming stronger. We are celebrating that the
days are beginning to become brighter and we are preparing and
planning what needs to be done for when new life comes. It’s a good
time to pick yourself up from the winter blues and shake any
negativity off. It’s time for us to honour the Triple Goddess, while she
is in her maiden form and is warming up the cold earth with the seed
of spring gathering in her womb. It’s a beneficial time for Wiccans to
start sparks of activity in different aspects of their lives which they
may have found it difficult to focus on in the gloomy winter months.
Anything that you would like to begin to concentrate on or direct
energy to in your practices or personal life should start to be included
in the mix now. It’s also a great time to let go of any unnecessary
aspects of your life you may have been carrying on your shoulders for
a while. It’s a time to clear away any old and unwanted thoughts,
feelings and situations and to make room for the new. Anything that
you need to eliminate to help you see a future path that you are
embarking on more clearly as the world warms up. It’s also a day to
honour the goddess, Brigid; she is the goddess of fire, the sun and the
hearth. She will begin to bring fertility and growth as the sun king
begins to warm the cold earth up.
HOW TO CELEBRATE IT
As you might imagine, Imbolc celebrations centre around new life and
cleansing.
ACTIVITIES
Begin to spring clean. Clear your room, house and workplace and
get rid of things that no longer serve you and are of no use. This
will start to prepare you for the hustle and bustle of the spring and
summer months.
Also, clear any emotional baggage you may be carrying–situations,relationships, people, stressful memories. This will help you make
room for the positive new beginnings that are coming your way
soon.
If you wish, this is a good time to clear and sort out your altar. If
there are any tools or anything at your altar that you are not happy
with, or you simply would just like to have a change around, now
is the time to do it. Collect new tools, begin to connect with them if
this is what you wish to do, now is the perfect time.
Begin to plant seeds in your magickal herb garden in preparation for
spring. If you are don’t already have a herb garden, this is the
perfect time to begin planting and creating a garden.
You could also go out and plant seeds in wild places, near trees, etc.
Create a Brigid’s cross: this is a symbol of fire which can be used
for protection. It is made from leftover dead reeds that might be
lying around in your garden or by rivers and fields. You can hang
the cross at your door or place it at your altar. After you are
finished with your Brigid’s cross, you can bury it or set fire to it for
good luck and to welcome the sun as it begins to wake up again.
A Brigid’s doll is created to bring luck to your home around this
time. You create these dolls from grass, reeds and sticks. There are
lots of different ways you can use this doll for protection; some
like to make it and then welcome it into their home and have it
there for the duration of Imbolc, welcoming in the goddess Brigid’s
energy. Then, after Imbolc has come to an end, they bury the doll
or lay it to rest near a tree.
If you are a new witch, Imbolc is a great time for self-dedication
ceremonies and initiations.
Some like to leave food out for Brigid (see below for some ideas) at
their altar to welcome her energies into your home.Go for a walk and search for signs of spring, collect new stones to
use for your circles, etc.
Create a bonfire or light a fire such as a yellow, gold or white
candle to welcome the sun god as he awakens.
ALTAR IDEAS
• Snowdrops–these beautiful pure flowers are the first sign of spring,
which is a huge sign of Imbolc.
• Your Brigid’s crosses and dolls can remain at your altar until
Imbolc comes to a close.
• Swan feathers or fake white feathers represent life, faithfulness and
loyalty.
• Sheep decorations like yarn sheep toys or wool or fake wool are
good to keep at your altar at this time.
• Oil lamps and candles in the colours of white, gold, yellow and
green are appropriate; they hold Brigid’s warm energies within, to
welcome the sun god and to represent the cold earth warming up
and green earth that is to come.
• Orange, red and yellow ribbons honour the sun god and the warm
earth to come.
FOOD AND DRINK
Good foods and drinks to eat around this time of the year are anything
that represents growth, because that’s one of the main reasons that we
celebrate this Sabbat. Also, seasonal foods such as spring vegetables
and fruit are relevant.
• Seeds, such as sunflower and pumpkin, and seed-related foods
• Poppy seed cakes and bread and any other seeded bread
• Oats• Dairy or dairy replacements, such as sheep’s and goat’s milk and
cheese (since the traditional Imbolc Sabbat was the start of the
lambing season) • Garlic, peppers, onions and olives
• Also baked goods such as scones, breads, muffins, waffles and
pancakes
CRYSTALS
Relevant crystals to carry around with you this time of the year and to
meditate with, to use in divination and spell work and to place at your
altar are:
• Amethyst
• Yellow tourmaline
• Citrine
• Bloodstone
• Ruby
• Garnet
• Turquoise
HERBS
Herbs and plants that are good for this time of the year are fresh
spring herbs, ones that start to blossom at the beginning of this season.
You can dry these herbs at your altar for future use, they’re amazing
to use for cooking and making teas (depending on what they are and if
they’re edible) as well as using for magickal workings too.
• Blackberry
• Snowdrops
• Witch hazel
• Lemongrass
• Camomile
• Cinnamon• Coriander
INCENSE
Good incense to use during casting circles, burning at your altar
around Imbolc time and for cleansing and consecrating, as well as
magickal workings, are:
• Vanilla
• Carnation
• Basil
• Bay
• Myrrh
• Spring flower scents
OSTARA (LESSER SABBAT)
Also known as spring equinox
WHEN IS OSTARA?
Northern hemisphere
19–22 March
Southern hemisphere
19–22 September
WHAT IS OSTARA?
Ostara is a celebration of the start of spring, it’s when night and day
have become at perfect balance with each other. At this time, light
now begins to take over darkness. Signs of spring are here for most of
us or are arriving very soon. New life and growth are appearing all
around us. Winter is drawing to an end and it’s getting to the time
where we need to shake off the winter, if we haven’t already atImbolc, and move full force ahead. All of the planning and
procrastinating at Imbolc is now to be put to the test and begun. It’s a
time for fertility, new growth, the birth of animals and insects too. The
sun is slowly awakening to its full potential. The sun god and the
young maiden goddess are married now and so conception is
imminent. When she gives birth she will become the great mother. It’s
also time to begin to honour your spring deities and your fertility
deities, the main one being the Germanic Anglo-Saxon goddess
Ostara who the Sabbat is named after. She wakes up the earth with her
powerful energy and creates fertility, growth and renewal all around.
Ostara often takes the form of a hare or rabbit, which is why rabbits
are a huge symbol of Ostara.
HOW TO CELEBRATE IT
Easter, the traditional Christian holiday that is widely celebrated, has
been adapted from the pagan Sabbat Ostara. As you may know, Easter
is named after the female hormone oestrogen, necessary for fertility,
which is one of the main aspects of the celebration of Ostara. As
Easter has evolved from Ostara, there are actually quite a few
similarities between the two holidays.
ACTIVITIES
Any plans or goals that you would like to complete this year, get
started on them now; motivation is high!
Start your magickal herb garden if you haven’t already, if you don’t
have room, no worries! Small pots and plants in appropriate places
can be just as effective.
Take a walk, look for the first inspirational and motivational signs
of spring. Maybe even press a flower or two.
Hold an Ostara egg hunt.Wear green to represent the green earth arriving.
Spells to cast at this time would be for hope, love and good fortune
or any that relate to achieving goals, to fertility and to love.
Bless an egg with a property of your choice and eat it.
ALTAR IDEAS
• Decorate it with green, purple and yellow ribbons to represent the
spring and greenery that comes to the earth.
• Light green, purple, yellow and orange candles.
• Paint real or fake eggs for your altar to represent fertility and
honour the fertility goddess Ostara.
• Decorate your altar with some spring flowers–only pick a few
though! After picking flowers, water them to give thanks and plant
some more seeds around them if you can.
• Pot up a plant and place it at your altar, keep it healthy and watch it
grow and flourish.
• Add statues, trinkets or stuffed toys of hares or rabbits–these are
major symbols of fertility and immortality, and are close
representations of fertility deities.
FOOD AND DRINK
Good foods and drinks for this time of the year are anything that
represent fertility and seasonal foods to honour the beginning of
spring:
• Green vegetables
• Seeds
• Eggs
• Dairy such as goat’s, cow’s and sheep’s cheese and milk. Free-
range or home-produced is best, but shop-bought or dairy
substitutes, if you don’t eat dairy, are just as good.
• Meats such as lamb, ham and rabbit, or meat substitutes• Meats such as lamb, ham and rabbit, or meat substitutes
• Flowers that are edible, on salads, etc.
• Light breads
• Fresh juices
CRYSTALS
Relevant crystals to carry around with you this time of the year and to
meditate with, use in divination and spell work, and place at your altar
are:
• Clear quartz
• Agate
• Rose quartz
• Amazonite
• Jasper
• Lapis lazuli
HERBS AND FLOWERS
Herbs and flowers that are preferable at this time of the year are
seasonal flowers and herbs that can be planted, or that begin to
blossom or be fragrant in the spring.
• Lilies
• Narcissus
• Lavender
• Honeysuckle
• Lemon balm
• Daffodils
INCENSE
Good incense to use during casting circles, burning at your altar
around Ostara time and for cleansing and consecrating, as well as foraround Ostara time and for cleansing and consecrating, as well as for
magickal workings, are:
• Floral–spring flowers
• Rose
• Strawberry
• Oak moss
• Sandalwood
BELTANE (GREATER SABBAT)
Also known as May Day
WHEN IS BELTANE?
Northern hemisphere
31 April–1 May
It can be celebrated either day or is traditionally celebrated from
the night of 31 April until the day of 1 May Southern hemisphere
31 October–1 November
WHAT IS BELTANE?
Beltane is celebrated because we are now at the peak of spring; the
sun god has now taken over. For many of us, summer is arriving, or is
coming very soon. It’s a super joyous, happy, exciting day that
honours life. The earth is buzzing and all of the earth’s energies are
thriving; fertility, sexuality, passion, energy and new life are at their
peak of stimulation at this time. Fertility is the main theme for
Beltane. The Triple Goddess in her maiden form and the Horned God
are finally united and they are bringing new life onto the earth. It’s the
time of the year when we need to grant luck to the summer months
and the growth that is coming. It is one of the solar festivals, the other
being Samhain. Beltane represents birth, while Samhain represents
death, which is why Beltane is seen as the most important celebration
by some people.by some people.
HOW TO CELEBRATE IT
Beltane celebrations focus on fertility, abundance and all of the
amazing gifts that the earth gives us at this time.
ACTIVITIES
Create amulets made from rose quartz and give them to loved ones,
friends and family. This is a gift that can help with positivity and
passion and they can help to lower anxiety too. For specific loved
ones this can help with the passion and romance between the two
of you and it can also calm nerves!
Flowers and greenery are a huge part of Beltane.
Create flower crowns.
Create daisy chains.
Wear flowers on your body.
Make a green man mask from leaves.
Beltane is a time of love, so if you have a loved one that you would
like to make a commitment to, this is an excellent time for
marriage, handfasting and promise rituals. You may want to plan
your ceremony for Beltane.
Dance round a maypole; this is a pole that is typically made from
wood or metal and that has ribbons tied to a wreath around it. The
maypole is a phallic symbol of the male, the wreath around it and
the ribbons coming off it, the vagina. We are celebrating fertility
and the marriage of the two of them around this time! You can do a
traditional maypole dance around this pole holding the ribbons.
Look out for nearby maypole festivities–there are probably morethan you think; if not you could create one yourself with your
loved ones or your coven.
As this is a day of love, if you are of an appropriate age,
comfortable and have a partner you would like to partake in this
with, being sexually active is part of the celebration–this is an
amazing time to do this.
Also if you have plans to conceive, now is a great and lucky time!
Be safe, be comfortable and never do this if you don’t want to!
Another way to celebrate love is just to go for a walk–you could
search for a hawthorn tree, make a wish, have a picnic and collect
some wild flowers. Share this experience with a friend or loved one
or enjoy a solitary walk.
Spells to cast at this time are love spells and vitality, protection,
romance and purification spells. Casting your circles with oats
around this time of the year is also a good idea! They are a
traditional Beltane grain for good luck.
Light a Beltane fire–have a Beltane fire ritual with your friends and
family, serve food and have an outside bonfire. Fires are
traditionally to honour our sun gods, and celebrate the warmth and
the sun god taking over the cold.
ALTAR IDEAS
• Decorate it with seasonal spring flowers.
• Drape it with green cloth and ribbons to represent the green earth as
it is now here!
• Add birch and hawthorn branches, burnt in your cauldron.
• Light red, pink and green candles.
• Red and pink represent passion, love and fertility, which suit the
theme of Beltane.theme of Beltane.
FOOD AND DRINK
• Oats in all forms: oat cookies, oatmeal, oat bread
• Dairy, cheeses and milks or dairy-free alternatives
• Also spicy food, to represent the element of fire and the sun
• May Day wine
• Vanilla-flavoured foods
• Fairy cakes
• Ice cream
• Sweet breads
• Elderflower and other flowery-flavoured cordials
CRYSTALS
Relevant crystals to carry around with you this time of the year and to
meditate with, use in divination and spell work, place at your altar
and, around Beltane, give as gifts to loved ones and partners, are:
• Rose quartz
• Emerald
• Sunstone
• Pink tourmaline
• Beryl
• Pink angel aura quartz
HERBS AND FLOWERS
Any herbs and flowers that are blooming now where you live are
perfect for Beltane. Try to get the most vibrant and powerful
blossoming herbs to work with at this time of the year.
• Lilac
• Thistle
• Flaxseed• Flaxseed
• Paprika
• Hawthorn
• Rowan
• Daffodil
• Honeysuckle
INCENSE
Good incense to use during casting circles, burning at your altar
around Beltane time and for cleansing and consecrating, as well as for
magickal workings, are:
• Peach
• Rose
• Vanilla
• Jasmine
LITHA (LESSER SABBAT)
Midsummer, or summer solstice
WHEN IS LITHA?
Northern hemisphere
20–24 June
It is typically celebrated on the longest day and the shortest night
of the year
Southern hemisphere
20–24 December
WHAT IS LITHA?
Litha is the celebration of the longest day and the shortest night of the
year. The sun god is thriving and at his most vibrant peak, giving
warmth to the earth and growth all around. We are celebrating thewarmth to the earth and growth all around. We are celebrating the
potential and successes that surround us. From now on the days will
begin to become shorter again and darkness will begin to take over.
The summer and warmth are still sticking around for a while, though,
and it is still a very happy occasion. We are celebrating the pregnancy
of the Triple Goddess with the Horned God. The Oak King is
currently ruling the waxing half of the year while the Holly King is
ruling the waning half of the year. The Holly King and the Oak King
are battling with each other and the Holly King will eventually
overrule the Oak King. Litha is a time for important magick and major
spell work that needs to be put into action; it’s the best time to
complete any huge magickal workings that need tackling. Before the
darker days return, we must celebrate.
HOW TO CELEBRATE IT
Litha comes at such a positive time of year and your celebrations will
reflect this.
ACTIVITIES
Tackle the most challenging and most anticipated spells and rituals
at midsummer, the ones that require the most energy from you;
what better time to do it than when the world’s energies are at their
peak! It’s the best time of the year for rituals to do with fire, faery
magick, love, passion, energy and luck for the warmer times to
come.
It’s also a good time to renew any tools or create or purchase any
extra magickal tools you may require.
Throw a midsummer bonfire or have a fire ritual. Or organise an
outside gathering to simply enjoy the sun! There are loads of
different ways that you can do this, a traditional midsummer
bonfire would (obviously) be outside, although if this is not anoption, a wood burner inside would also be fine. Burn pieces of old
oak, light them on the evening before midsummer, then let them
burn out as they reach the morning. It is also common to scatter
herbs on the fire. Some Wiccans also burn the nine sacred types of
wood (birch, rowan, ash, alder, willow, hawthorn, oak, holly and
hazel) to bring them good luck and a good harvest. During the
midsummer bonfire they would jump over the fire, then let the fire
burn down completely and sometimes collect ashes from the fire
and scatter them on the fields or on their herb garden to bring good
fortune in the harvesting season coming in the near future. You
could also keep some ashes for luck within spell work or rituals.
Create a god’s eye: it is typically made from wool or string and its
purpose is to give protection and luck for the darker and colder
days to come. Hang the god’s eye above your altar or on your door.
Go for a walk and enjoy the peak of summer! Collect things from
the natural world that you need for magickal workings and to place
at your altar. Have a picnic or barbecue or even just go to the beach
or go for a bike ride.
If you work with the fae or just like to appreciate them, midsummer
is the time for the faery rede. At this time, the fae will be riding
magickal animals across the countryside, so hang out, either
outside your house or in a nearby field. Bells and offerings such as
sparkly decorations and food can be used to create the perfect area
for the fae.
ALTAR IDEAS
• Light green, yellow, gold and red candles to represent the sun god
at his peak and the green earth at its fullest.
• Decorate your altar with summer flowers such as sunflowers,
carnations, poppies and hydrangeas.
• Place a ring of flowers around your altar or around specific items• Place a ring of flowers around your altar or around specific items
for protection.
• Pictures of the sun or ornaments symbolising the sun honour the sun
god being at his peak.
• Oak leaves represent the Oak King, who has been ruling for this
half of the year, but will be laid to rest soon. Oak in different forms
can be relevant to Litha.
• Gold, yellow and orange ribbons and cloth can be draped at your
altar.
FOOD AND DRINK
• Warm-coloured vegetables such as butternut squash, sweet potato,
carrots and tomatoes are all great to eat around this time of the year.
They represent warmth and the wonderful produce we receive from
the summer.
• Home-grown or locally produced leafy green vegetables
• Spicy foods
• Curries
• Spiced cakes
• Spiced punch and rum
• Anything with honey or as an alternative golden or maple syrup–
bees are another representation of Litha, the midsummer full moon
is actually also known as the honey moon!
• Barbecued food or flame-grilled food is good to eat too; once again
it represents the heat and the sun’s energy.
• Ice cream–not only is it cooling in the summer months, it also
represents the colder days to come.
CRYSTALS
Relevant crystals to carry around with you this time of the year, to
meditate with, to use in divination and spell work, and to place at your
altar are:altar are:
• Emerald
• Sunstone
• Citrine
• Yellow tourmaline
• Yellow topaz
• Calcite
HERBS
Seasonal fresh herbs are great for Litha, as is anything that represents
heat, flavour and greenery and ties in with Litha’s celebrations.
• Mint
• Basil
• Rosemary
• Sage
• Honeysuckle
• Carnation
• Paprika
INCENSE
Good incense to use during casting circles and burning at your altar
around Litha time and for cleansing and consecrating, as well as for
magickal workings, are:
• Lavender
• Citrus scents, such as orange and lemon
• Musk
• Pine
• Rose
• Summer flowersLAMMAS
Also known as Lughnasadh
WHEN IS LAMMAS?
Northern hemisphere
1 August
Southern hemisphere
1 February
WHAT IS LAMMAS?
Lammas is a celebration of harvest; it’s the realisation that the green
earth’s energies and bustling growth are beginning to slow down,
darker and colder days will arrive soon and summer is coming to an
end. The warm days are still lingering, the sun god is losing his
strength; he is finishing putting his energies into the earth now,
producing the first of the two harvests, but he has not yet come to an
end. The goddess’s condition has now changed; she is the grain
mother. She will dry the crops and let the seeds fall from them into the
earth now, where they will rest all through winter, returning at Imbolc.
The main theme of Lammas is fulfilment: the earth is producing a
harvest and providing us with food.
HOW TO CELEBRATE IT
Lammas celebrations reflect the achievements of the physical, mental,
emotional and creative labours of the last few months.
ACTIVITIES
Create a corn mother or a corn dolly. These can be made from
things left over from the first harvest in the fields–corn, reeds,
wheat, etc.Relevant spells to cast at this time of the year are for abundance,
connection, career, mental or physical gain. Cast your circle with
relevant grains such as oats, corn and wheat; this can strengthen
your circle.
Also, if you have any spells where you require the sun’s energies,
cast them now!
This is a time for fulfilment, especially when it comes from the
harvest.
Create a meal for your loved ones with all the home-grown food
you may have produced in your garden and herb garden.
This is the last opportunity of the year to enjoy the outdoors, while
there is still some warmth, so if you haven’t already done so, go on
picnics, walks, bike rides and visits to the beach. Go out and collect
fallen seeds from nearby fields, parks and paths and plant them
ready for next Imbolc.
This is a perfect time for you to create your broom, gathering old
twigs, reeds and wood which are easy to find at Lammas. They’re
an amazing magickal tool and a representation of fulfilment and
home.
Perform Lammas harvesting rituals to honour the sun god for the
last time.
ALTAR IDEAS
• Light gold, yellow, brown, orange and black candles to represent
the earth changing from green to brown, autumnal colours, and
black for the darker days arriving.
• Tie ribbons and drape cloth at your altar, in the colours gold,
yellow, orange and brown. You can also wear these colours toyellow, orange and brown. You can also wear these colours to
honour the Sabbat.
• Scatter relevant grains from the harvest to honour the fulfilment you
feel at this time of the year: wheat, corn, onion, oats, barley and rye.
• Sunflowers are now at their growing peak. Potted marigolds are
wonderful to grow at your altar too.
• Place your corn mother or corn dolly at your altar.
FOOD AND DRINK
• Home-made bread made from wheat, corn, rye and oats
• Fresh berries and fresh fruit from the recent harvest
• Fruity berry wines
• Home-grown vegetables and fruits
• Sweetcorn, popcorn, corn on the cob, any corn-related produce
• Apples, apple cider and apple cake
CRYSTALS
Relevant crystals to carry around with you this time of the year, to
meditate with, to use in divination and spell work and to place at your
altar are:
• Citrine
• Clear quartz
• Aventurine
• Golden topaz
• Cat’s eye
HERBS, FLOWERS, GRAINS AND BERRIES
Herbs, flowers and anything that has come from the recent harvest. As
with all of the Sabbats, you can dry these herbs at your altar, around
this time, for future use. They’re amazing to use for cooking and
making teas (depending on what they are and if they’re edible), as
well as using for magickal workings.well as using for magickal workings.
• All grains
• Meadowsweet
• Mint
• Heather
• Sloes
INCENSE
Good incense to use during casting circles, burning at your altar
around Lammas time and for cleansing and consecrating, as well as
magickal workings, are:
• Sandalwood
• Rose
• Camomile
• Mint
MABON
Also known as the autumn equinox
WHEN IS MABON?
Northern hemisphere
21–24 September
Southern hemisphere
21–24 March
WHAT IS MABON?
Mabon is a celebration of balance–the days and the nights are now in
equilibrium once again. It’s time to give thanks to what the summer
has brought us and the warmer days that have just passed. This is thehas brought us and the warmer days that have just passed. This is the
second harvest Sabbat; the harvest is coming to an end soon. It’s also
time to let go of anything that you may be clinging on to; projects are
now coming to an end. We harvest the last of our herb gardens and lay
everything to rest. It’s similar to a pagan Thanksgiving. The goddess
has now begun to lie down to rest for the winter. The harvest lord, or
the green man, is sacrificed and he falls into the earth, his seeds lie
there until next spring.
HOW TO CELEBRATE IT
Celebrations at this time focus on the awesome way that the natural
world gives us stability, harmony and equilibrium.
ACTIVITIES
Create a horn of plenty, also called a cornucopia. This is a symbol
of what the harvest has given us. You can buy a shaped cone or
wicker basket or create your own if you want to give it a go. Fill
the basket with fruits, vegetables, nuts, corn, grains, all given to us
from the last two harvests. Let the produce spill out of the basket
and use it as a centre piece for a meal to celebrate Mabon or place
it at your altar.
Hold a home-grown or local produce meal with relevant foods to
give thanks to what the harvest as given us.
Spells for balance, or to create calm in specific situations or in your
life in general are beneficial at this time. Other relevant spells are
for protection and security in the approaching winter months.
Prepare for winter. Clear out your house or room and prepare your
altar too. Clear out any unused items and also clear your mind, get
rid of any negative situations or negative energies that you may be
carrying with you. Cleanse your house at this time.Create acorn necklaces or trinkets, and bless the acorns with luck
and protection for the winter months. Hang these at your altar or
give them to loved ones.
Take a walk into the woods; collect things for your altar and look
for signs of autumn.
ALTAR IDEAS
• Light green, brown, orange and red candles. Apple, cinnamon and
spiced candles are also good. The green candles represent the green
earth that has passed us and the autumnal-coloured candles
represent the earth and the changes all around during this season.
• Places fruits such as apples, pears, berries and autumn vegetables as
offerings to your relevant deities. Collect some windfalls from the
ground, and once you’re finished with the offerings you can place
them on a bonfire and use the ashes for future magickal workings or
you can lay the fruit and seeds down in the wild for animals to eat
and for seeds to grow.
• Brown, red, orange and black ribbons and cloths are great to drape
and tie at your altar. Wearing these colours to honour the Sabbat is
relevant too.
• Decorate your altar with acorns, pine, autumn leaves and corn.
FOOD AND DRINK
• Home-made grain breads made from rye, wheat, oats and corn
• Potatoes–mashed, roasted, etc.
• Home-grown or local vegetables, butternut squash, sweet potatoes,
corn, carrots, onions and courgette • Nuts and nut roast
• Apples, apple juice, spiced apple cake and apple cider
• Fruit turnover cake, dried fruit cakes and fruit bread
• Fresh meats or meat substitutes
• Grapes and wine• Grapes and wine
• Pomegranates
CRYSTALS
Relevant crystals to carry around with you this time of the year, to
meditate with, are to use in divination and spell work, and to place at
your altar are:
• Amber
• Yellow agate
• Sapphire
• Quartz
• Citrine
HERBS
You can dry these herbs at your altar around this time for future use.
They’re amazing to use for cooking and making teas (depending on
what they are and if they’re edible), as well as for using for magickal
workings.
• Sage
• Marigold
• Milkweed
• Rosemary
• Apple seeds and dried apple
• Camomile
INCENSE
Any autumnal/winter blends are good to use during casting circles,
burning at your altar around Mabon time and for cleansing and
consecrating, as well as magickal workings. Here are some specific
ideas:
• Apple• Apple
• Cinnamon
• Sage
• Pine
• Fern
SAMHAIN
WHEN IS SAMHAIN?
Northern hemisphere
31 October–1 November, traditionally celebrated from the evening
of 31 October until the morning of 1 November Southern
hemisphere
31 April–1 May
WHAT IS SAMHAIN?
The Wheel of the Year has now turned a full circle, and for Wiccans,
this is their new year. This is the biggest celebration of the year for
many Wiccans. Samhain is the third harvest of the year, the harvest of
meat. Samhain is a celebration of those who have passed on; it’s a
time to honour the dead and a type of Wiccans’ ‘day of the dead’. It’s
the second spirit Sabbat of the year (the first being Beltane). It’s
believed that on this day the veil lifts between us and the spirit world,
so there are spirits wandering the streets and it’s a time to honour
these spirits and celebrate the lives of our deceased loved ones. There
can be no life without death; it’s a part of the circle of life and the
Wheel of the Year. Balance is everything, we are celebrating this, we
are celebrating death itself, so it’s still a joyous Sabbat, we are not
sad! We are aware that life will return next spring. Darkness and
winter are now taking over and shorter and darker days are here. The
sun god is now making his descent into the underworld, which lifts
the veil between us and the spirit world. The Triple Goddess is in hercrone phase and she will now swallow the sun god and bring darkness
throughout the land.
HOW TO CELEBRATE IT
Celebrations at this time of year are about appreciation, compassion,
remembrance and reflection.
ACTIVITIES
Divination, especially scrying, is powerful at this time of year.
Because the veil is lifted, it’s believed that you get a more accurate
insight into the unknown and the future. You can also use scrying
as a form of necromancy (connecting to the deceased); it is also at
its most effective and most powerful at this time of the year. It’s
also actually a safer time of the year to do things like Ouija boards
and seances. Because the veil is lifted and the spirit world is open
to everything, not just sprits that might try to get through to you to
cause harm, but also loved ones who are close at this time, so
connecting with them is much easier. Show respect and don’t mess
around with the sprits, it will backfire.
Visit a graveyard or a loved one’s grave, lay flowers, pumpkins and
other offerings on graves to honour the deceased. If you do this in
the weeks leading up to this time, it lets your loved ones know that
they are welcome to your home at Samhain.
Spells to cast this time of the year are, again, the big ones. Tackle
the ones that require greater power–energies that you require may
be all around you, but remember to cast a circle to keep out the
negative, especially at this Sabbat! Perform love spells, sex spells,
protection, hope for the winter months and banishing spells for
lingering negativity so that it does not enter the New Year with
you.Wear black to honour the Sabbat and honour the deceased.
All spirits are wandering on this day–both good and harmful. It’s
traditional to wear costumes to scare any negative, unwanted spirits
away. Some dress as ghosts or wear white to trick spirits into
thinking that they’re one of them too. Some also dress as the
deceased, a skeleton, ghost or ghoul to honour the dead and to put
themselves in the shoes of the deceased for one evening.
As it’s coming to the end of the Wiccan year, renewing your altar
and magickal tools at this time of the year is a good idea.
Carve pumpkins and turnips. This was originally a pagan tradition;
they were carved with spooky faces and left outside houses to scare
away negative sprits and discourage them from entering your
home.
Throw a Samhain feast for your loved ones. Lay a place or two at
your table and some food for those that you are remembering and
place a photograph of the deceased nearby to invite them to join
you on this day.
To show respect to the wandering dead, you can leave offerings
such as food at your door for any who might not have a place to be.
This is the last opportunity to harvest your herb garden. It is bad
luck to leave any crops out past this time as they are seen as
offerings to the dead and it is believed this can lead to a bad harvest
the next year.
ALTAR IDEAS
• Place pictures or mementos of deceased loved ones on your altar.
• To honour the dead and the Sabbat, you can also leave memorabilia
in the windows of your home along with black candles to entice the
sprits of loved ones into your home.
• Decorate it with skulls, or fake skulls.• Decorate it with skulls, or fake skulls.
• Collect animal bones or feathers to honour nature’s loss and the
cycle of life. After you have finished with these, remember to put
them back where they came from.
• Light black, gold and orange candles. They represent the autumn
and the colours of the earth at the time.
• Add autumn leaves and dead plants to your altar to honour nature’s
death.
• Place gourds, pumpkins and black cat figurines on and around it.
• Add crow feathers and figurines–crows symbolise death.
FOOD AND DRINK
• Meat is a huge part of Samhain as it’s the time of the farm animal
slaughter, but if you do not eat meat, substitutes are just as good!
• Roasted foods such as seasonal vegetables, potatoes and parsnips
• Pumpkin–pumpkin pie, seeds, breads and soup
• Corn–sweetcorn, popcorn, cornbread
• Apples–apple cake, apple pie, apple juice, apple cider
• Spiced wine, cider and mulled wine
CRYSTALS
Dark-coloured crystals are great for this time of the year. Relevant
crystals to carry around with you, to meditate with, to use in
divination and spell work and to place at your altar are:
• Black tourmaline
• Smokey quartz
• Obsidian
• Clear quartz
• Granite
• AmberHERBS
You can dry these herbs at your altar around this time, for future use.
They’re amazing to use for cooking and making teas (depending on
what they are and if they’re edible), as well as using for magickal
workings.
• Calendula
• Rosemary
• Apple leaf
• Bay
• Garlic
INCENSE
Good incense to use during casting circles, burning at your altar
around Samhain time and for cleansing and consecrating, as well as
magickal workings, are:
• Myrrh
• Nutmeg
• Mint
• CinnamonTHE ESBATS
The Sabbats celebrate the changes of the seasons and their relationship
with the sun, and Wiccans celebrate the male deity of the sun god.
During the Esbats, we honour the feminine deity of the moon. The moon
is seen as feminine; it corresponds with the female menstrual cycle.
About every 29.5 days (roughly every four weeks) an Esbat comes
around. There are usually twelve full moons in a year, occasionally
thirteen: when a full moon appears twice in one month it is named a ‘blue
moon’. Even though the Esbats are less well-known than the Sabbats,
they are just as important and are integral parts of the Wheel of the Year.
The moon reaches its greatest power once a month, so that’s the time of
the month to do tons of different magickal workings. These full moons are
the time to charge your tools and crystals and honour the goddess of the
moon. At Esbat celebrations, covens often have a ritual, a feast, spell
craft and socialising. We give thanks to the goddess of the moon and use
the full moon to enhance our psychic powers for whatever we choose to
do now.
Following is a short explanation of the Esbats:
JANUARY || THE WOLF MOON
(also known as the Old Moon, the Winter Moon or the After Yule
Moon)
January’s moon is an excellent time for protection, strength and planning.
It is the time to look to the future. The days are still cold and dark, but
they are very gradually beginning to lengthen. It can be a cold, lethargic
time, when we feel out of sorts in many ways. Try to begin to think about
goals that you’d like to complete for the year–write a list, keep yourself
safe and try to harness positive energy. Take some time for yourself at
this moon and relax, meditate somewhere warm and listen; think about
what needs to be done and the changes that you would like to make for
the year and ask your goddess to help you determine this. Take time to
connect with yourself and your deities. Perform spells for protection,prosperity, luck and motivation. Heal yourself with crystals such as
haematite. Correspondences to this moon would be plants such as
marjoram, thistles and nuts; colours such as silver, black and white.
Relevant trees are birch, rowan and hazel. Another correspondence
would be the element of air. You can incorporate these correspondences
by decorating your altar with these plants and burning hazel, rowan or
birch in your cauldron to ensure motivation is high in the month to come.
FEBRUARY || THE QUICKENING MOON
(also known as the Hunger Moon, the Storm Moon or the Death
Moon)
The Quickening Moon is all about new beginnings. Start to put any plans
that you’ve made into action now. We need to clear any negative
problems away and clear anything that is no longer serving you; begin to
think about your happiness and whether situations, people, jobs, etc. are
truly having a positive effect on your life; if not, now is time to start a plan
of action to change things. Your goddess can be asked to help with
anything you’d like to achieve that is relevant to this moon. Spells to cast
at this time are for health, confidence, motivation, banishing negativity
and also fertility, which definitely relates to this time of the year.
Correspondences for this full moon are crystals such as rose quartz,
jasper and amethyst and herbs such as sage and myrtle. The colours are
purple, blue and silver; the element of this moon is fire.
MARCH || THE CHASTE MOON
(also known as the Seed Moon, the Crust Moon and Worm Moon)
This is the time of the year to shake off the last few months when it was
difficult to find motivation and welcome the spring at full force, plant
mental seeds and begin to put the plans you made over the last few
moons into action. Your head may not be in the best place at this time, it
can be confusing getting rid of the mental dust that has settled in your
mind but, go with it, let it be and it will pass. Start to clear your spaces outand get rid of anything that no longer serves you, stop procrastinating
and go for it. Also, cleanse your area from negativity using smoke; this
can really help create a clear mind at this time of the year. Winter is
coming to an end now. Begin to prepare yourself mentally for new
exciting things to happen in your life. Spells to be cast at this time of the
year are, once again, motivation spells, luck spells and power spells.
Other correspondences may be crystals such as aquamarine, aqua aura
quartz and bloodstone, herbs and plants such as apple blossom, wood
betony and basil, and colours such as green, yellow and lavender. The
relevant element to this moon is water.
APRIL || THE SEED MOON
(also known as the Pink Moon, the Wind Moon or the Egg Moon)
April often brings the rain and wind. This is the time of year to look at
your career or path in life, even your path in Wicca! Look at everything
and decide whether you are on the right track and if you are truly happy
with where you are going. Weigh the good against the bad and decide
where you see your life heading, career-and path-wise. Then take action.
If you decide to change paths, it’s the time to do it! April is known as the
Seed Moon; so it’s time to plant new seeds in any direction that you feel
necessary. It’s also the time of fertility, the start of conception and growth.
This is one of the best times to harness the moon’s energy and draw it
into yourself to help with all of these changes that you may be making to
improve your life and well-being. If you find all of this overwhelming and it
has the opposite effect to making you feel better and more balanced, try
meditating. Spells to cast around this time are for career, ambition,
power, money and love, and spells for any aspect of improvement in your
life that you’d like to proceed with. Correspondences for this moon are
bright, motivational colours such as red, yellow and blue. Use crystals for
healing and with meditation for this moon such as angelite, selenite,
quartz and agate. Herbs and plants such as fennel, dill, dandelion and
milkweed all relate to the element of this moon, which is air. Other
correspondences are trees such as hazel and willow.
MAY || THE HARE MOONMAY || THE HARE MOON
(also known as the Planting Moon, the Flower Moon and the Milk
Moon)
May’s moon marks the beginning of summer for some of us, and warmer
days. Growth is flourishing and it is time to get outside and feel the air,
pot some plants if you haven’t been feeling up to it already and carry on
with all those plans you’ve had over the spring and winter months. This is
an extremely fiery moon, where passion is flowing throughout the earth–
fertility, new love and growth are all around us. This is an effective time to
focus on friendships and also on relationships–if you are in one and
you’re happy, then celebrate the love between you both! However, it
might be the time to look for a new relationship and to make changes to
your love life. If this is the case and you need direction, meditation with
rose quartz or the Tarot can help you find answers. Spell work around
this time could focus on love, sex, friendship and fertility.
Correspondences are crystals and stones such as ruby, rose quartz,
amber and garnet. Herbs full of spice and fire are relevant to this Esbat,
such as cinnamon, paprika and mint. Appropriate flowers are daisies and
dandelions. Other correspondences are hawthorn and rowan trees.
Colours like orange, red, blue and yellow are amazing too. The element
of this moon is fire, as you can imagine. (Fire rituals under this moon are
awesome!)
JUNE || THE LOVERS’ MOON
(also known as the Dyad Moon, the Strawberry Moon and the Strong
Sun Moon)
Summer is now here and the earth is green, flowers are blossoming all
around! The days are getting longer and growth is everywhere! It’s time
to care for and enjoy your career, strive and improve where you can–
work hard and you will reap the benefits! It is the same with relationships
and friendships: love and nurture the people that you care about as much
as you can–nurture every aspect in your life really. Ensure that you take
care of your home and garden too. The goddess is mothering the fieldsand tending to the green earth. Maybe have your Esbat outside on this
day. The Lovers’ Moon is another great time to draw energy from the
planet to aid you with your psychic abilities and call on your goddess to
help you with spells such as self-love and confidence spells and spells to
help you with anxiety and mental health. Colour correspondences of this
Esbat are the colours of the sun–warm colours such as gold, yellow,
orange and red. Relevant crystals are agate, yellow topaz and lapis
lazuli. Herbs and plants such as parsley, mugwort and mosses are
wonderful for this moon; other correspondences are trees such as oak
and the element of earth.
JULY || THE MEAD MOON
(also known as the Blessing Moon, the Hay Moon and the Thunder
Moon)
The sun is at its lovely peak in July and the heat is all around us, flowers
are blooming and food is growing. This is an extremely joyous time and
the warm weather can make us feel wonderful and positive. However,
sometimes extreme heat can result in our energies being low and can
make us feel a little down. It’s okay at this time to be selfish in ways that
benefit you, while not having a negative effect on others; it’s okay to
leave a relationship or friendship that isn’t helping your happiness at all!
At this time, you may feel confident enough to make some changes and
take some time for yourself to rebuild your energy and discover what is
making you happy and what isn’t. This can be a very busy time, so it’s
good to take some time now to think about this and act on it now, or later.
Meditate and ask your goddess for guidance. Spells for this time of the
year are for a specific change that you’d like to make that is personal to
you–stamina spells, beauty and career spells. Colour correspondences
for this moon are silver, grey, blue, green and turquoise. Other
correspondences are trees such as ash and oak and herbs and plants
such as lemon balm, mugwort and camomile. Crystals for healing around
this moon are opals, pearl, moonstone and malachite. The element of
this Esbat is water.
AUGUST || THE WYRT MOONAUGUST || THE WYRT MOON
(also known as the Red Moon, the Wort Moon and the Grain Moon)
August is the last push of summer before autumn rolls in, so it’s a
relevant time to get motivated and complete plans and strive for results.
The days are beginning to get darker; it’s time to thank your goddess for
the success you’ve had over summer with spells and other magickal
workings. This is the time to make good use of the remaining summer
energy to get on with any new or unfinished projects. Creativity is flowing
around this time so it’s a good idea to channel this into something that
will give you pleasure. Spells are for creativity, luck, money and
protection, as the colder days beckon. Some correspondences are
crystals and stones such as topaz, tiger’s eye, garnet and carnelian.
Colours include yellow, orange and red. Other correspondences are
herbs such as rosemary, camomile, basil and catnip and trees such as
hazel. The element of this Esbat is fire.
SEPTEMBER || THE HARVEST MOON
(also known as the Hunters’ Moon and the Barley Moon)
September is the harvesting moon, the earth is cooling down and we are
spending more time inside our homes. Our emotions can be a little all
over the place, and we need to prepare ourselves and our homes for the
colder months. It’s also time to give thanks to the summer and the food
that the harvest is providing for us. The summer might have been
stressful and busy and can leave us with cluttered emotions, so use this
time to clear through them, sort your life out a bit and free yourself of
anything that needs to be cleared and give thanks. Cooking and kitchen
magick can relax you around this time, as well as cleaning and
meditation. Meditate and give thanks to the goddess for the fulfilment that
the harvest is giving us. Good spells for this time of the year are for
protection, luck and abundance, as well as cleansing spells.
Correspondences of this Esbat are earthy tones such as brown, green,
dark red and burnt orange. Crystals for healing around this time are
peridot, bloodstone and chrysolite. Other correspondences are herbs and
plants such as wheat, witch hazel, valerian and flax, and trees such asare birch and larch. The element of this Esbat is earth.
OCTOBER || THE FALLING LEAF MOON
(also known as the Travel Moon, the Dying Grass Moon and the
Blood Moon)
October’s full moon arrives before Samhain and reminds us that winter is
just around the corner. The Falling Leaf Moon is the time when the
hunting and slaughter seasons are near and the energy shifts critically
around this time. The darker days and colder nights are here and we
honour our ancestors at this time of mortality. Everything becomes crisp
and bare, trees shed their leaves, animals go into hibernation and death
surrounds us in many ways, but life will always return next spring! The
Falling Leaf Moon is the time to honour all of our loss–of nature, animals
and our ancestors. The veil is lifted between this world and the spirit
world again, and this is an ideal time to connect with loved ones and ask
for them to join you for this Esbat. This is the best time of the year for
divination, necromancy or spending the Esbat honouring the dead.
Crystal and stone correspondences are obsidian, tourmaline and onyx.
Herbs and plants are apple blossom, mint and sage. Tree
correspondences are apple and yew. Colours for this Esbat are black,
silver, purple and blue, and the element is air.
NOVEMBER || THE SNOW MOON
(also known as the Frost Moon, the Beaver Moon and the Tree
Moon)
November is here and so is the cold weather and the frost. Protection for
your home and your mental state is needed. It’s time to cleanse and
protect our home and our emotions. We may want to protect our houses
with magick and charms, or we could protect ourselves by also making
sure that our career and money are looked after. It’s also time to shed
negativity, toxic friendships and relationships, toxic situations and have a
fresh start for winter if you need it. Look for anything that may affect youduring the colder months and sort it out to prevent problems. We can call
upon our goddess to help protect our loved ones at this time. Draw the
moon’s energy down to us, meditate with it and look for changes that
need to be made in order to create protection. Spells for this time of the
year are protection, healing, money, luck and career. Correspondences
for this Esbat are colours such as light yellow, brown, grey and dark blue.
Other correspondences are crystals and stones for healing and
meditation such as jade, jasper, garnet and amethyst, and herbs and
plants such as fennel, cayenne pepper, betony and verbena. Branches
and leaves from any type of tree can be used to place at your altar to
honour the fallen of autumn. The element of this Esbat is water.
DECEMBER || THE OAK MOON
(also known as the Yule Moon, the Cold Moon and the Long Night
Moon)
The December moon is the last moon of the year; it actually comes after
Yule. From now on, the days will slowly begin to get longer again and the
cycle will restart. New beginnings and changes will happen once again
and we welcome back the sun as it gradually returns. This is the time of
self-discovery and evaluation of the passing year. Look back on your
year and meditate on it, call upon your goddess and ask what needs to
be changed, think about mistakes that you may have made and any
gains and losses you experienced, and use these reflections to improve
the next year. Think about new goals that you want to aim for in the
coming year. This is the time to share love and appreciate what you
have. Do not dither over what you don’t have but instead work for what
you want. Spells to perform at this time are for peace, balance, cleansing
and relationships. Correspondences for this Esbat are colours such as
white, red, black and gold. Herbs and plants are mistletoe, ivy, berries,
parsley, lemongrass and sage, and trees are pine, holly and fir. Crystals
and stones for healing and meditation are ruby, amazonite and
moonstone, and the element of this Esbat is fire, for the return of light.15.
Altars and Magick Tools
An altar is a sacred surface, whether it be a table, shelf, small area or, for
the more secretive or private Wiccans, a cupboard or chest. It is an area
where we set up special tools which we use for magickal workings of all
kinds. It is also a place where we come to honour our deities, the
seasons, the Sabbats and Esbats, to give thanks to all of the elements
and our natural world and to do things such as magickal workings and
divination. Most importantly, an altar is a place to which a Wiccan can
come to just be. It’s a place where we can meditate and feel calm and
safe. An altar is great for focusing your thoughts, especially during your
practices. This is why it’s important to set up your altar exactly how you
like it, to make it a place that you love and like the look of and to know
that you like being at your altar; this can help a lot with focusing on your
practices. You don’t have to spend tons of money on your altar or have
all of the tools to begin with, nor do you have to have a beautifully
decorated, aesthetically pleasing altar with lots of items on there. It can
be as simple or as extravagant as you like and you can take your time
building it. It doesn’t make you a lesser Wiccan because you have only a
few tools at your altar, because it’s personal to you. You can make a lot
of stuff for your altar or collect things slowly. An amazing aspect of Wicca
is using the natural world to help us alongside our practices, so there is
absolutely nothing wrong with handmaking objects for your altar. Also, it’s
important to note, anything at your altar can be remade or replaced and
you can have multiples of items. There are specific times that are best to
renew or remake your tools if you wish to do so, such as the Yule,
Imbolc, Ostara and Samhain Sabbats, and also at the beginning or
ending of the month or at a full moon. Although it is not necessary to wait
for these specific times to renew tools, if you don’t want to wait.
TEMPORARY OR PERMANENT ALTARSTEMPORARY OR PERMANENT ALTARS
You can set up either a temporary or permanent altar depending on how
you like to work and whether it’s practical. As a Wiccan, I feel it’s
important to have an altar because it gives me a place to be, and a place
where I feel safe and where there is limitless potential. However, I am
very aware that for some people, it is not possible to have a permanent
altar in your home. Some may have problems keeping an altar because
of the risk of it getting destroyed, others may not be able to have one
because of their home life situation or you might simply not want a
permanent altar and prefer to store tools and set up temporary altars
when you choose to do your workings.
Some, like myself, have a permanent altar. This would typically be set
up in a safe place in your home where it will not be disturbed by anyone
other than you. This type of altar would normally stay put–of course, you
can change it and move it around if need be, but it usually stays in one
particular place for a long period of time. If you have a permanent altar,
but would like to set up a temporary altar for different reasons, you can
always take tools from your altar to use at your semi-permanent one, or
you can keep a whole other set of tools to use, depending on your
preference. As for a temporary altar, it’s a lot more flexible for people who
may have trouble setting up a permanent one. You can set a temporary
altar up anywhere you feel is suitable to perform your magickal workings
and to store your tools somewhere safe and away from them being
disturbed. I like to set up temporary altars depending on the type of
workings I’m doing and the location that I would like the workings to take
place in.
MAGICKAL TOOLS FOR YOUR ALTAR AND THEIR USES
WAND
Your wand is a magickal tool that you can use in your workings,
commonly made from natural, long-lasting materials such as wood,
crystal and stone. Wands are typically over 6 inches long and made from
a smoothed-down natural material, thicker at the end you hold in your
hands and tapered towards the top. There are many misconceptionsabout what wands actually do, cough Harry Potter *cough. We do not use
wands the way you have probably seen them used in the movies. We
mainly use them to channel and project energy that comes from within us
to a certain point of focus such as a specific object or a space. As a
Wiccan you can make your wand yourself, or purchase a wand that you
feel a great deal of connection to. Some choose to have a wand made
out of their birth tree or a tree they feel a connection to, the same goes
for crystal and stone wands made from materials that you might feel an
association with. If you choose to make your own wand you can find the
wood you wish to gather; if it’s not lying on the ground, be sure to ask the
tree for permission first and thank it how you please–I like to thank the
tree with water or seeds. Then you can dry the wood out, sand it down,
maybe varnish it and decorate it how you choose. You can use paints,
carve or write relevant symbols on your wand, you can add appropriate
crystals to it, feathers, string, anything imaginable that is relevant to you
and however you’d like to decorate it. Some Wiccans have many wands
they work with in their practices and some only have one, once again it
depends on the Wiccan and their personal preference.
CAULDRON
You can keep as many cauldrons around your house as you please, as
with any of these tools. I have found that it is always good to keep one
cauldron at your altar permanently because you can use them for many
different workings, but I’m aware cauldrons may not always fit on your
altar. A cauldron is typically an iron pot with small legs and a matching
iron lid, but in reality any pot that is waterproof will do. Cauldrons are
normally used for smaller workings like burning stones, oils or materials
for smaller spells. For bigger workings, you may need to use an actual
pot, fire pit or heated oven. (Unless you have a hench cauldron with a
heated surface to place it on.) You can heat your small cauldron with a
tea light candle. Like all of your magickal tools, treat your cauldron with
respect and keep it clean and undamaged so that both the physical
leftovers and energy from previous workings that you might create in the
vessel will not affect any future workings.
BROOMSTICK OR BESOMBROOMSTICK OR BESOM
Unfortunately, a broomstick is not something that we ride around on, as
much fun as that would be. You can keep your broomstick next to your
altar or on the altar itself, depending on what size it is; it can be a full-size
broom or a small hand-held one. We do not use our broom for cleaning
our altar; this is also a common misconception. Instead, we use it to clear
(sweep) away energy surrounding our altar that we don’t want. We can
do this before any magickal workings or divination. You can also use it
during rituals to help clear anything that needs clearing. You can buy a
broom, but it’s preferable to make your own broom because
manufactured brooms can include nails and glue which are believed to
be bad for clearing the energy around you, as they inhibit the energy
flow. So, if you do decide to buy a broom, make sure it’s naturally made.
You can bind your own broom using twigs that you have collected and
left to dry out. Using string or rope, you must bind these twigs securely to
a long, thin piece of wood, which you will also have to dry and can sand
down and gloss, in a similar way to your wand. You can choose the
appropriate and relevant wood for your broom in the same way that you
choose the material for your wand.
ATHAME
At your altar you could typically keep two specific knives, the first being
an athame. This is a type of ritual tool that you use in your magickal
workings for metaphorical cutting; you don’t normally use an athame for
physically cutting things. You can use this knife for channelling and
protecting energy, which means that an athame can also be used to cast
a circle and also cutting bonds in order to be free of certain things. An
athame usually has a dark handle, made out of stone, wood, crystal or
metal; it is typically over 6 inches long, although some are smaller and
possibly easier to work with. The athame does not have to be sharp,
because it’s not physically used for cutting purposes. You can make your
own athame out of wood, much like you would a wand, by carving,
sanding and glossing it. A lot of Wiccans like to buy their athames; you
could simply purchase a knife that would be appropriate for this purpose.
You can purchase your athame from online pagan shops or magickalshops, or you can look in stationery shops or secondhand shops. All you
have to decide is whether it feels right for you, and if you are drawn to
working with it. After you have found or made your knife you can
decorate it; some like to leave the point of the dagger clear of
embellishment, but once again it’s up to you. If you’re working with the
fae, try to use your wand for the things you would typically use your
athame for because the fae are repelled by knives.
BOLINE
The second knife you could keep at your altar is a boline. This is a knife
you use for the physical cutting of raw materials during your magickal
workings. You can use it to cut plants, herbs, flowers, offerings, etc. at
your altar. It’s typically made with a much lighter handle, usually cream or
white. You can also (carefully) use your boline for carving your other
tools. Of course, because it is used for physical cutting, the boline needs
to be much sharper than your athame. Your boline can be a regular knife
that you can incorporate into your workings; it then becomes a boline.
Some Wiccans prefer to use crescent moon blades, small scythes or
even scissors. Once again, it’s best for this knife to be made from natural
materials.
CHALICE
A chalice is a representation of the goddess. It is a glass, goblet, cup or
even sometimes a mug made from materials such as silver, gold, metal,
clay or any safe drinking material that won’t leak. You can buy specific
chalices from pagan shops or the chalice can be something a lot simpler,
such as a stoneware cup. You can fill the chalice with water, wine or a
liquid of your choice and its contents are typically used as an offering or
as a symbol during rituals. Your chalice can also be used to keep an
offering in on Sabbats, in order to honour your deities.BOOK OF SHADOWS
You can store your Book of Shadows at your altar too. Some choose to
keep it here just for major convenience. It can also be a good place to
store it because the area of your altar usually remains untouched. (See
Part 2, Book of Shadows for more information.)
DIVINATION TOOLS
You can place any of your favourite divination tools at your altar,
including tarot cards, scrying tools, rune stones, tasseography teacup,
pendulum, etc. This is a convenient place to keep them close to you in
your most sacred space. Some Wiccans keep the tools they use most
frequently there because it is believed that this keeps the tools connected
to them and helps the tools get used to your patterns, which can help
with divination. This can be particularly helpful with new divination tools.
OFFERINGS
You can also keep offerings for your deities at your altar. Leave herbs,
relevant foods, wines and water to give thanks to your deities at the
Sabbats when you call upon one to help you with a ritual, a spell or any
other magickal workings. One of the most frequently asked questions
about honouring your deities is what do you do with the offerings when
you place them at your altar. Some believe that they should burn the
offerings, leaving them at their altar for a period of time prior to this, and
then using the ashes for other types of magickal workings. Others believe
that you can leave your offerings at your altar for the period of time you
deem appropriate and then remove them to a compost bin or bury them
in the ground, which gives something back to the earth.
HERBS
Drying herbs at your altar is also a great thing to do. Why not try creating
a wall hanging or some sort of shelf to hang herbs on that may need tobe dried for specific workings. You can also have herbs at your altar for
offerings to your deities, and each herb can be relevant to the specific
deity; for example, if you’re giving the offering to a god or goddess of
fertility or love, you may use a herb like lavender or rose flowers.
GOD AND GODDESS CANDLES
Typically, at your altar you could have two candles–one representing the
goddess, female energies or perhaps the goddesses who you work with,
the other the god, the male energies and any other gods in the set of
deities you work with. The goddess candle usually sits to the right of your
altar and is a light colour, such as gold, white or rose, and the god candle
sits to the left and is a darker colour, such as red, black or blue.
STATUES
Instead of having candles, you can have statues of your main deities,
especially if you have specific gods or goddesses or only choose to
follow feminine or masculine ones. The statues can be made of concrete
or stone and bought online or in local shops, or they could be symbols
such as carved, wooden cut-outs.
PENTAGRAM
As the main symbol of Wicca, a pentagram at your altar is a good idea.
The pentagram symbolises the five elements–spirit at the top, and going
clockwise from there the points represent water, fire, earth and, lastly, air.
These are all essential factors of the natural world; we need all of these
elements of our natural earth to preserve life, which is why they are so
important. Some form of pentagram at your altar can also provide
protection during your practices. As Wiccans, we can use a pentagram
for evoking and invoking deities. The pentagram is frequently traced or
drawn out with our athame and wand. We also use a pentagram to cast
circles.
The pentagram can be engraved, made out of natural materials like
sticks and wood or other materials, or even bought online or from a localstore. I feel like it’s really important to have at least one at your altar, but
you can have as many as you like–for me, the more the better!
INVERTED PENTAGRAM
In some faiths and religions the inverted pentagram is seen as evil, and
unfortunately because of this our innocent pentagram that merely
represents the elements of this earth can be confused with representing
‘the devil’. In reality the pentagram was never a symbol of evil and before
this belief came around, the inverted pentagram actually represented
male energies while the upright pentagram represented female energies.
Use it how you will, but in the Wicca faith it is never used to represent evil
nor does it mean this to us personally.
OTHER SYMBOLS
Any symbols–engraved, made or bought–can be placed at your altar too,
as long as they feel relevant to your practices or have significance to you.
BELL
This seems to be less common now but traditionally, keeping a bell at
your altar was very important. A bell can be used for many things in your
practices: some keep it there to use when they would like to call upon
their deities. It can also be used for getting rid of any unwanted energy,
as the vibrational properties of the bell clear any bad energy away. Any
type of bell is good–you can buy a special bell that may have relevant
symbols on it or just a regular one. Antique and vintage shops are the
best for finding these at a good price. Bells made from metal are
preferable.
WATER
Water is an important representation of one of the elements–that’s right,
you guessed it, water. It can also be used for spell work, casting circles
and put to other uses. In a nutshell, it’s a handy thing to have around youwhile you’re working. The water can be kept in a cup or bottle, but not
your chalice since you may need to use that for other things. Water
collected from a clear lake, a stream or the sea can be useful because
natural, unfiltered water carries helpful energy and properties.
SALT
Salt represents another element at the altar–earth. Again, this can be
used for many things in your workings, including casting a circle. Many
potions are made using salt as an ingredient.
SAGE
Sage is a great thing to keep at your altar–even a bunch of dried sage
always comes in handy. Sage can be used to represent air, and for me,
personally, it is essential for casting a circle, cleansing and many other
magickal workings.
INCENSE
Incense can be used to represent air. It can be used to cleanse and
consecrate tools. Also, because several scents can have relevance to
specific deities, incense can be used to honour the Sabbats and deities.
CONSECRATING YOUR TOOLS
Once you purchase or make the tools you are using for magickal
purposes, it’s important to cleanse and consecrate them. This ensures
that the tools you are using are free from any positive or negative energy
that they might have picked up from wherever they have come from. The
tools are then cleared and ready for use in your practices, and they get
used to your patterns and your own magickal purposes. Some people
choose to do this just before the first time a tool is used; others do this
frequently. If the tool has been handled improperly–for example, if it has
been picked up and played with by a child or has been used for negative
workings–it may need to be cleansed or consecrated again. The tools atyour altar can be permanently kept there, but any other tools you use are
best stored in a dark or black cloth to keep out any unwanted energy or,
at least, in a safe place where they will not be mishandled. They may
need cleansing again before use if they have been stored for long
periods of time, but it is up to you to determine whether the specific tool
needs this or not.
GETTING A TOOL USED TO YOUR PATTERNS OF
WORKING
Minor tools–candles, statues, water and salt–may not need this, but
some Wiccans like to get major tools–wands, divination tools, brooms
and chalices–used to their patterns. You could do this before you cleanse
and consecrate it, or you could do it afterwards. Personally, I like to do it
beforehand. This can be done by meditating with the tool or carrying it
with you in a bag for between ten and thirty days, and sleeping with it
near you at night. This is just the first step towards connecting with the
specific tool.
CLEANSING THE TOOL
First you must cleanse the tool to rid it of any unwanted energy it may
have picked up before it came into your possession; this is to ensure that
anything it may have picked up will not have an effect on your workings.
It’s like ensuring you’re starting with a clean slate.
You can cleanse your tools in many different ways. While cleansing
your tool, you could say something like, ‘I cleanse this tool, so it is clear
and ready to assist me within my work.’
WHAT YOU WILL NEED
• Water from a natural source
• Salt or earth
• Burning sage or incense
• A lit candleRun the tools through natural water such as a stream, lake or river
water. Sea water is another option, but be careful if your tool is metal
or material–either dry it instantly after doing this or choose a different
method for cleansing.
Burn sage or incense and run the tool through the smoke it releases;
do this for up to five minutes or until you can feel the energy has been
cleared and it seems less cluttered. You can stop and start and hold it
tightly to feel whether the energy has cleared.
Leave the tool in the earth for twelve hours–some like to leave it longer
depending on how old the tool is and how much energy it might have
picked up.
Wave it through a candle or a flame, quickly, so it doesn’t become
damaged. If the product is flammable you may prefer to use one of the
other methods for cleansing.
CONSECRATING YOUR TOOL
1. First, start by placing the four tangible elements around you. Place
the element of air to the east of you: this is sage or incense. Then
place a lit candle, representing the element of fire, to the south of you.
Then place water to the west of you to represent the element of water.
It’s better for the water to be in a chalice or cup for this ritual as it’s
more difficult to get out of a bottle. Last, but not least, place the salt or
dirt to the north of you to represent earth.
2. To start the consecrating ritual, begin by casting a circle. I do this
before I do any magickal workings if I feel the need. Since these tools
are going to be a huge part of your practices, I feel that this is
necessary, but if you don’t, then that is completely okay. See the Spell
Work chapter in Part 3 (here) for casting circles.
3. After you have cast your circle, face east, hold the tool straight out in
front of you and say, ‘I choose this [name of tool] to assist me within
my work.’
4. Then, close your eyes and visualise all of the unwanted energyleaving the tool–this might take a few minutes.
5. Now, turn to the south, where you will start by consecrating the tools
with the elements. Start by facing the element of fire and saying,
‘Element of fire, I choose this [name of tool] to assist me within my
work’, then bend down and pass the tool through the flame quickly, or
if the tool is flammable, just wave it through the heat coming off the
candle a few times. As you do this, say, ‘I bless and make this [name
of tool] sacred, tool of my craft, I charge this [name of tool] with the
element of fire.’
6. Next, turn to face the west, going round in a clockwise direction to
face the element of water. Once you face this direction, say, ‘Element
of water, cleanse and fill this tool I have chosen for my magick.’ Then,
bend down and take a few drops of water and sprinkle them over the
tool that you’re consecrating and say, ‘I bless and make this [name of
tool] sacred, tool of my craft, I charge this [name of tool] by the
element of water.’
7. Then, turn to the north to the representation of earth and say,
‘Element of earth, cleanse and fill this tool I choose for my magick.’
Then, bend down and take a sprinkling of salt or dirt and sprinkle it
over your tool, saying as you’re doing this, ‘I bless and make this
[name of tool] sacred, tool of my craft, I charge this [name of tool] by
the element of earth.’
8. Still holding the chosen tool in front of you, turn to face the east and
say, ‘Element of air, I cleanse and fill this [name of tool] I have chosen
for my magick.’ Then pass the tool through the smoke of the sage or
incense and chant, ‘I bless and make this [name of tool] sacred, tool
of my craft, I charge this [name of tool] by the element of air’.
9. Finally, still facing east, hold the tool above your head, touch it to the
floor, then hold it to your chest, stating, ‘This tool is ready to assist me
within my work, being consecrated and charged, so blessed this
[name of tool] be.’
10. Remember to close your circle.After this, just work with your tool and use it as frequently as you can to
see the connection between you both flowing. If you continue to work
with the tool as much as you can, one day you will have bonded with it so
much that you will be able to handle it a lot more loosely and even if you
don’t use the tool for longer periods of time, it will still be fine for use (see
here on cleansing tools).
SETTING UP YOUR ALTAR
The way you set up your altar is completely up to the specific Wiccan. As
I said previously, it needs to be set up in a way that you are completely
happy with and, as your Wicca journey continues, you will discover new
elements to add to your altar, changing things around and making it your
own. You may even find some tools that you started with are no longer
necessary and some you will come to see as being of great importance.
An altar can be as simple and small as two candles, you could have an
altar with only things that represent the four elements or it could be as
complex and large as a table full of tools. For any of you who may be
stuck when contemplating setting up your altar, below is an illustration
suggesting how to kick-start the process. You will not need all of these
tools to begin with.Another suggestion, if you’re completely stuck with setting up your altar,
is to follow the pentagram set-up rule–that is using any item you have at
your altar will have some relation to one or more of the elements. So, for
example, your wand, because it is made of wood, can represent earth or
air, so it can go to the lower left or the upper left of your altar, and so on.16.
Spell Work
Spell work and rituals can seem complicated and mysterious to begin
with, and feeling awkward is completely normal when you’re starting out
on the witchcraft side of your journey. As your practice continues, you will
learn spells from books, online, through Wicca forums and apps. You will
soon be working with your intuition, developing your own spells and
rituals that work for you.
Do not be put off if a spell doesn’t have the desired effects; this often
needs practice and just because a spell works for one person, it does not
necessarily follow that it’s going to work for another. Some spells may not
work at all; others may work wonderfully at the first attempt. You will soon
discover a sense of doing things your own way, working with your
intuition, developing your own spells and rituals that work for you.
As with many things in life, practice truly does make perfect. The
accuracy and flow of your spells, potions and rituals will definitely
improve with repetition and experience. However, everybody needs to
start somewhere, so following are a few spells learned from close friends,
in addition to some of my own personal ones to help you kick-start your
spell work. There is one spell for each of the main categories: honouring
spells, blessing spells, banishing or dispelling spells and gaining spells.
BEFORE YOU BEGIN
One of the most important aspects of spell work is getting in the right
headspace before any spell or ritual. There are a few things that I do to
achieve this and to focus my concentration before my magickal workings.
VISUALISATIONMy first tip is visualisation. This helps you focus on the goal that you are
planning to achieve with your spell or ritual work. Your intent needs to be
heightened; you need to really want to achieve the result of the spell or
ritual and you need to be sure that you have tried every other way to
achieve the result before you cast the spell. With visualisation, you have
to dig into the deepest recesses of your brain in order to find the subject
at hand and see it in order to send the message of your intentions out
into the world. This way, the universe and the earth’s energies know that
this is your intent. My mother is not a particularly spiritual or magickal
person but sometimes, maybe once a year, when she really needed
something, she would go outside and ask the universe for it, with all of
her intent. And every single time she believed that, it worked. I always
think of this when casting spells and doing ritual work in order to show
the universe how much I need the energy for it, to show them my
intention is needed. There are several ways that you can visualise. Here
are some of my favourites:
VISUALISE 1–THE BASIC METHOD
Take a walk. This is extremely good, especially when you’re doing a ritual
where you have to reach a destination such as a lake, field or woods,
before practising your magickal workings.
I take a walk to my destination, then I lie down or sit cross-legged, I
relax every part of my body completely and close my eyes. I focus on my
remaining senses. I listen to every sound, to insects and animals around
me, to the wind and maybe to every whisper; feel the ground below me;
notice how the air smells; every little thing is heightened. Notice changes
in your body, which senses react to your environment? As you relax, you
can sometimes still see shapes and also make out patterns in your
imagination. You can slowly begin to visualise your intent for your ritual
and spell and focus. Focus until you feel you can no more–this may take
three minutes or it may take thirty.
VISUALISE 2–THE FIRE METHOD
Make your environment ready for some spell work or ritual work and sit in
a place where you are comfortable. Take your cauldron or a vessel that is
fireproof. Place your favourite type of wood or sage in it and then set italight. Some people like to watch the fire; in this case ensure that you
have a material that will burn continuously, or you can have a material
that produces smoke if you prefer. Burn this item and focus on the fire or
the smoke, keep focusing on the medium at hand; don’t lose
concentration. Think about how the curves of the fire or smoke create
shapes, can you see your intent in the shape? Notice, how do the forms
change? Keep focusing on your intent until the smoke or fire stops. Be
sure to have a window open if you’re doing this indoors–it can get super
smoky and set off a fire alarm, in my personal experience!
VISUALISE 3–THE BOWL METHOD
Prepare your environment so that it’s ready for you to start your magickal
workings and make sure that you are comfortable. Find a dark or white
bowl and fill it almost full with water. Light a candle and position it so that
the flames are reflected in the water, preferably to the centre of the bowl.
Watch the flame in the water and, again, visualise the intent of the spell
work that you are about to perform. Focus on this flame and your intent
for as long as you feel necessary. This could be for a few minutes or
hours; enough time for you to feel that your message to the universe has
been read and understood. When you feel that the time is right, trace the
shapes of a singular word that represents the intent of your spell, using
your hand in the water. Touch the ground below you, then hold your
hands above you and thank the universe.
VISUALISE 4–THE MEDITATION METHOD
Meditation is another effective way to cast your intent out into the
universe using visualisation. It focuses concentration and balance within
your mind and body. (See Part 2, Meditation for tips.)
CREATING A SPACE
First it’s important to create the best environment for casting spells, and
performing rituals and even divination. Lots of changes can be made in
order to help your headspace; everybody works better in their own,
individual, preferred environments. Here are some tips:Adjust the heating–this depends on whether you’re doing your spell or
ritual work outside or inside! When you are in a meditative state or a
state of heightened concentration, your body temperature can either
rise or drop, so adjust the temperature beforehand to account for this.
Adjust the lighting–again this depends on whether you’re inside or not,
but dimming your lights or using candles can sometimes help create a
more effective atmosphere to work in.
Make sure that you won’t be disturbed. This can depend on what
you’re doing; sometimes you might like to involve your family and
friends with spell work and make it more accessible, so this might only
apply for more serious spells which require you to be on your own. In
this case–be sure to ask your family, partner or anyone you live with
not to disturb your concentration. Feed your animals and make sure
they’re comfortable elsewhere and, if you have children, ask
somebody to look after them, if necessary.
Put on music, a soundtrack of nature noises in the background or, my
personal preference, a relaxing yoga soundtrack. Some people also
like to work in complete silence; the choice is yours.
Wear the correct attire. Some Wiccans have specific clothes to wear
during spell and ritual work. Others just prefer to wear something that
is comfortable to work and move in. For ritual work you might choose
to have a cape, robe or special item of clothing saved just for these
occasions or you might even choose to be skyclad (naked).
Be comfortable. Wherever you are, outside or indoors, make sure
you’re as free and as comfortable as you can be.
CASTING A CIRCLE
Casting a circle means casting a protective space around yourself, your
altar or the space that you are working in before casting a spell, or
performing ritual work and divination. Casting a circle can keep out
unwanted and negative energies and can strengthen and concentrate
your energy too. Casting a circle can also create a safer place to be and
this allows you and your energies to flow within the circle, without anyoutside disturbances. Some Wiccans find it necessary to cast circles for
any spell, ritual or divination work, whereas some pick and choose
depending on the importance of the spell that they are casting. You will
soon learn what feels right for you personally. There are many ways to
cast a circle and so many aspects of casting can change to suit your
surroundings and personal preferences. This is my method–feel free to
adapt it, as and when you wish! For example, at Mabon, I complete
casting my circle by laying oats or grain around me!CASTING MY CIRCLE
All these items will already be at my altar:
• Broom
• Incense
• Chalice
• Wand
• Athame
• Sage
• Water
• Salt
HOW TO CAST YOUR CIRCLE
1. Get rid of any unwanted air and energy in your space–take your
broom, or a tool you use to replace your broom, and make a
sweeping motion around the area you are working in and your altar or
around the tools that you are using in whatever magick you are about
to perform. There may be unwanted energies lingering in that space;
just sweep them away!
2. Cleanse your circle–take your water for the element of water, salt for
your earth element and sage for the elements of air and fire. In your
chalice, pour a small amount of water, then add a small amount of
salt, mixing the salt and water. I use my athame for this, then wipe it
clean.
3. Stand facing the east, place your hand in your chalice and sprinkle
the salt water around you, rotating and working in a clockwise
direction. As you are moving around think about how the water is
really cleansing the area, let your hands and the sprinkling of water
guide you around your circle. Do this until you return to your starting
point, facing east.4. Now take your fire and air element; in this case, sage. Light the sage
and assume your position facing east; once again, going around in a
clockwise direction, drag the sage around your circle, letting it flow
through the air, using your hand to waft the smoke around your circle.
5. Prepare your circle–now, standing within the circle, I take the time to
call upon my deities, sometimes the whole group of deities that I’m
working with or a specific deity whose help I require. For example, I
may call upon my deity Nuada, the Celtic god of healing, if I were
casting a healing spell. To call upon my deity, I would say something
like, ‘Nuada, the mighty god of healing, I call upon you to watch over
me while I work.’
6. Visualise–now you need to channel energy within your circle. Once
again, face the east, your starting point, and begin by grounding
yourself to the earth. Hold your tool (wand, athame, etc.) out in front
of you with both hands and connect yourself to the earth. Close your
eyes and breathe in deeply: take four seconds to breathe in and then
four seconds to breathe out, slowly. Now, it’s time to visualise: feel all
of the energy within you rooting you to the ground below you, feel the
bottom of your feet connecting to the earth below you. Visualise the
energy projecting through your body, connecting the top of your head
to the bottom of your feet, to the earth. Concentrate on the flow of
energy that is rooting you to the earth below your feet.
7. After you have grounded yourself, now envision a light. This light is
coming from under the ground below you, travelling into the bottom of
your feet, up through your legs, into your chest and arms, into your
hands and fingertips; you may feel a tingly sensation in your hands,
then visualise this light travelling all the way through the tool that you
are holding. The light might be white or gold, but everyone imagines a
different colour. After you have this light radiating through you, it’s
time to cast your circle.
8. Cast your circle–while still facing east, still envisioning the light
travelling through your tool, say the words, ‘Element of air, I call upon
you to watch over me while I work.’9. Then move round to the south and visualise the white light travelling
in your tool–helping you draw the circle, joining to the next element.
When you are facing the south, say the words, ‘Element of fire, I call
upon you to watch over me while I work.’
10. Do the same and turn to face the west, still keep visualising your light
and then say the words, ‘Element of water, I call upon you to watch
over me while I work.’
11. Then turn north and speak the words ‘Element of earth, I call upon
you to watch over me while I work.’
12. As you do all this, visualise the white light drawing out your protective
circle.
13. Last, but not least, call upon the element of sprit. Turn to face your
original starting point, hold your tool above your head, with both
hands, as high as you can. Then bring your tool down, kneel and
touch the ground with it and as you do, say, ‘As above, so below, I
call upon the element of spirit.’
Your circle is now cast and ready for your workings. After you have
completed the practice that you intended to do within your circle, you
have to remember to close it.
CLOSING YOUR CIRCLE
Kneel on the ground in the place where you finished completing your
circle, where you called upon your spirit element, facing east. As you did
before but, this time, in reverse, bring your tool from the bottom of your
feet, stand up and bring your tool to point right above your head. Envision
the beaming light from before disappearing as you reverse the circle,
disappearing back deep inside of you, through your body, legs, into your
feet, back into the ground and as you do this say, ‘I thank the element of
spirit, now I close this circle.’
Now still facing the east, hold your tool out in front of you and say, ‘I
thank the element of air, now I close this circle.’
Now moving anticlockwise around the circle, still envisioning thisbeaming light disappearing back inside you, turn to face the north and
say the words, ‘I thank the element of earth, now I close this circle.’
Then continuing in an anticlockwise direction, with the light still
travelling back through your tool into your body and into the ground, face
west and say the words, ‘I thank the element of water, now I close this
circle.’
Then, turn to face south and say the words, ‘I thank the element of
fire, now I close this circle.’
After that, turn back to face your starting point and thank your deities
for your practice by saying something like, ‘I thank Nuada for helping me
within my practice.’
After finishing closing the circle, I like to just brush away the air around
me again with my broomstick to get rid of any unwanted energies.
Then, you’re done.
SIMPLE SPELLS TO PRACTISE
A SPELL TO HONOUR A LOVED ONE WHO HAS PASSED
Intent: To honour or to thank a deceased loved one or someone who left
your life in some way, maybe moved away from you, for the effect that
they had on your life. This will help you cope with grief and assists
emotional healing.
WHAT YOU WILL NEED
• Your favourite beverage–tea, cocoa, coffee, etc.
• A picture of the passed loved one (a spare photo that you won’t miss,
or a copy) • A piece of memorabilia or something that the person loved
(e.g. their favourite food or drink) • A white candle (I would recommend
a thin, medium-sized candle) • Light (matches or a lighter)
• A piece of paper, if you don’t have a picture that you can write on • A
pen or marker
Method
1. Pick a day that is relevant to the person–the anniversary of theirpassing, a day that you frequently saw them on, or maybe an
anniversary of when you met them, or maybe the next full moon.
2. Take your candle, the picture of them, the pen and the item that
reminds you of them or their picture and put them somewhere you
can sit comfortably.
3. Light the candle and, as it burns down, make yourself your hot
beverage, then sit yourself comfortably–as you’re making the drink
and then sitting, think of the person you have lost and keep them in
mind the whole time.
4. Sip your beverage and, as you do, write a small letter to this person,
on the back of the picture or on the piece of paper. Write down things
that you wished you had told them, what they meant to you, why you
need to say goodbye. Sign the letter with your name and then write
this underneath: ‘The meaning of this spell is gone but never
forgotten, or gone until we next meet.’
5. After you have done this, read your written message out loud, so if
the spirit is listening it will hear it. Or, if this is for someone that hasn’t
passed and just isn’t in your life anymore, the energy will be passed to
them.
6. After doing this, continue to sip your drink until the candle burns out,
then fold your picture or piece of paper as small as it will go.
7. Keep it safe and untouched then, when you can, take it to their
gravestone or a place that is relevant to you both or to your memory
of them. Perhaps you could also take an offering of something that
they liked or a piece of memorabilia that you don’t mind parting with.
Bury it in the earth, lay it on the stone or near it, or place it
somewhere where it won’t be found.
A HOUSE-BLESSING SPELL
Intent: To bring positivity, happiness and good energy to the home.
Negative energy can build through people’s actions. Use this spell for anew start and to help drive away negative energies in the future.
WHAT YOU WILL NEED
• Fennel
• Basil
• Peppermint oil
• Black salt or coal and sea salt mixed together
• A fireproof dish
• A tea light candle and a lighter or match
• Sage
• A chalice
• Saltwater
Method
1. On your dish, place the tea light. Anoint the tea light with a sprig of
fennel, a leaf of basil and a dash of peppermint oil and a sprinkle of
the black salt.
2. Start in the entrance room of your house. Light the candle and say:
‘This house is good,
so not its past,
clear this room,
let happiness last.’
Then place your candle down and clap twice in each room to clear the
negative energy vibrations.
3. Do this in every room of your house. Bring the candle to each room,
repeating the same words and then clapping twice.
4. Once you have finished, leave your candle at your altar to burn
down–never blow it out before it’s ready. While the candle is burning,
stare into the flame and visualise the negativity disappearing and
burning away like the flame.
5. Then, take your sage, light it, start at the entrance room and go
around every room, allowing the smoke coming from the lit sage to
cleanse each room. Allow the smoke to purify any negative energycleanse each room. Allow the smoke to purify any negative energy
that may be lingering. As you do this, in each room say the words: ‘By
the powers of Fire and Air, I cleanse this house!’
6. After you have done this, do the same with salt water in your chalice;
start at the entrance room and sprinkle and flick salt water throughout
each room. As you do this, say the words: ‘By the powers of Earth
and Water, I cleanse this house!’
7. After you have finished all of the rooms, say the words: ‘I thank the
elements for blessing this house, so mote it be.’
8. Dispose of the water in the garden or in a river.
A BANISHING AND PURIFICATION SPELL
Intent: To remove a feeling, situation or person from your life.
WHAT YOU WILL NEED
• A match
• Pink salt or sea salt
• Black ribbon
• Cumin
• A dish for burning
• A small piece of paper and a pen
• A small glass jar
• An offering or a small item that is relevant to the
person/situation/feeling that you are trying to banish
Method
1. Place cumin into your jar until it’s about half-full; place a
spoonful of salt on top of the cumin.
2. In your dish, write on the paper the situation, name or feeling that2. In your dish, write on the paper the situation, name or feeling that
you would like to get rid of, fold it up, place it in your dish and
burn it.
3. Now, place the ashes into the top of your jar, on top of the cumin
and salt.
4. Fasten the lid onto the jar as tightly as you can and then, every
night before you go to bed, shake the bottle as many times as you
please. As you do this, picture the situation or person moving
away from you. Do this until the next full moon comes along.
5. On the day of the full moon, take the black ribbon and tie it
around the top of the jar 6. Take your jar and the offering to a
river, the beach or somewhere appropriate for disposing of the
situation.
7. Place or throw the jar into the water and then turn your back on it.
Throw your offering over your shoulder into the water too. Then
walk away and don’t turn back or return to the area until the next
full moon arrives in the following month.
A SELF-LOVE AND RECOVERY SPELL
Intent: To gain self-worth for well-being and healing
WHAT YOU WILL NEED
• A small piece of rose quartz
• Salt, or pink Himalayan salt
• A rose
• A lily
• Mint
• Thyme
• 2 or 3 bay leaves• 2 or 3 bay leaves
• Cinnamon
• Olive oil
• A pot to cook in
• A jug or bottle that you can seal
• Water
• A spoon
Method
1. At your stove, boil enough water to fill your bottle or jug.
2. Pick the heads from your rose and your lily and separate the petals
into the simmering water.
3. Add a pinch of salt to the water, and then add the oil, the mint, the
bay leaves, the thyme and the cinnamon and stir with a spoon.
4. As you are stirring the potion, say the words:
‘I forgive myself, and love my body.
I accept the suffering, let it move forward with me.
The light I seek has not gone yet, cherish who I am, and fights
it’s met.
I accept myself and love myself too, let my power, continue to
shine through.’
5. Repeat this three times as you are stirring.
6. Place the potion in your bottle and seal it.
7. Have either a bath or shower that evening. If you have a bath,
place a small amount of this potion in the bath and hold the piece
of rose quartz in your hand for the duration of time that it takes to
run the bath and say the words again:‘I forgive myself, and love my body.
I accept the suffering, let it move forward with me.
The light I seek has not gone yet, cherish who I am, and fights
it’s met.
I accept myself and love myself too, let my power, continue to
shine through.’
8. If you have a shower instead, take a small amount of the potion
and rub it on your arms and hands and then hold the piece of rose
quartz in your hand and say the above words, then get into the
shower and wash the potion off your arms and hands.
9. You can keep this bottle of potion and use it in this way whenever
you need a boost of self-love or recovery.17.
Colours
Colours are extremely powerful; they can trigger physical reactions, affect
our emotions, alter the vibrations in situations and influence the energy
around us.
We are surrounded by colours from the natural world; leaves and
grass can be vibrant greens, which make us feel alert and alive, and a
scarlet rose will immediately draw your attention and can encourage
passion and high energy.
Every colour has different associations and properties which we can
use to our advantage in magickal workings. Coloured ribbons, candles
and flowers can be incorporated into spells and placed on your altar,
colour can also be considered in celebrations and clothing. You might
also have a specific colour that you prefer to surround yourself with
during spell work, or just generally in everyday life! My favourites tend to
be yellow and red, because of their positive, warm, relaxed and happy
vibes.
COLOURS AND THEIR CORRESPONDENCES
Red Passion, love, sex, attraction, high energy, strength, danger, war,
conflict, assertiveness, power, warning
Green Abundance, growth, prosperity, luck, herbal magick,
acceptance, money, healing
Yellow Warmth, energy, inspiration, happiness, success, friendship,
pleasure, knowledge, growth
Blue Peace, water, protection, power, focus, luck and fortune, weight
loss, harmony, spiritual release, spiritual strength, determination
Pink Romance, love, passion, care, peace, tenderness, kindness,friendship, nurturing, spiritual growth, femininity, relationships
Gold Fortune, career, health, justice, luxury, money, attraction,
understanding, divination, luck, positivity, masculinity Orange
Happiness, creativity, expression, energy, fun, new start, joy,
success, ambition, goals, fulfilment, overcoming
Purple Spiritual guidance, wisdom, psychic power, breaking barriers,
removing evil, breaking habits, politics, luck, truth, meditation,
mystery Brown Comfort, house blessings, healing, strength,
prosperity, concentration, luck, home, garden, stability, food,
finance Black Wisdom, protection, safety, banishing, reverse,
scrying, defence, pride, removing curses, power, grounding,
knowledge White Purity, wholeness, peace, good, cleansing,
innocence, magick involving the fragile and innocent, balance,
truth, spirituality, raising vibrations, wishes, healing Silver Psychic
awareness, psychic ability, dream work, meditation, the moon, luck
with risky subjects, intuition, femininity18.
Crystals
For thousands of years, humans have been drawn to crystals, rocks and
stones, believing them to have magickal properties; the ancient
Egyptians used turquoise, lapis lazuli and clear quartz for healing and
protection. Wiccans use these amazing and beautiful products of our
natural world to help with endless aspects of their magickal workings,
healing, meditation, spell work and even for divination. Each crystal has
its own individual energies and vibrational properties. In a sense, they
work the same way that plants do; having plants around your house can
affect your mood, your mind and your body, according to the type of plant
and its properties. Having crystals throughout your home and carrying
crystals around with you can affect your moods in different ways and can
also help with spiritual, mental and, in some cases, physical healing.
USING CRYSTALS IN WICCA
Meditating while holding specific types of crystals cannot only help focus
your thoughts, but also if you have something particular that you’d like to
meditate on, you can use a stone that has properties that relate to the
issue. This will help to give clarity to your thoughts and to guide you.
You can use crystals within spell work too, and within rituals; you can
use them to create or change something or even infuse potions with
them.
Crystals can also be used for healing and protection. Some people
choose to carry specific crystals around with them or wear them as
jewellery–pendants and talismans, for mental protection or even
manifesting energy towards you. For example, wearing rose quartz may
gradually bring feelings of love towards you, while sunstone is perfect for
summer and bringing warmth, happiness and positivity.You can also leave crystals around your home for protection. Some
people even use crystals for psychic healing, and use the properties
within crystals to heal their bodies or minds, calming anxiety and helping
balance their emotions. This can have extremely effective results; for
example, to soothe a sore throat, holding fluorite against it can calm the
pain, and amethysts are good for combatting sleeplessness. (Note: Even
though crystals help with many ailments, do not rely on crystals as a
cure; they are a tool to help but always consult a doctor if you have
concerns about your physical or mental well-being.) Also, crystals can be
used within divination, to concentrate energies and to make divination
tools such as rune stones, pendulums and scrying mirrors and crystal
balls.
HOW TO CLEANSE YOUR CRYSTALS
Crystals hold energy; they collect the earth’s energy (which is what
makes them so magickal), but they also collect energy from people. This
can be a very positive aspect when it comes to using crystals for
divination, as it can make them so amazingly bonded to a specific
person. However, if crystals are new to you or if they have picked up
other energies, it’s probably best to cleanse them before you incorporate
them into your magickal workings. You can cleanse them as frequently
as you feel is necessary. Here are a few ways to cleanse your crystals.
Burn sage and allow the smoke to cleanse the crystal–hold the crystal
and wave it around in the smoke of the sage. (You can also do the
same with incense.) Hold it through running water–natural water
sources are most effective; waterfalls, lakes, streams, the sea and
rivers. Some crystals are not suitable for water so do your research
before proceeding.
Bury it in earth for twelve hours.
Use a bell–chime the bell near the crystal a few times and knock the
vibrational energy out of it.
Quickly pass the crystal through the flame of a candle, again be careful
with this method. It’s extremely effective, but not all crystals like it!Leave the power of the moon to cleanse your crystal–lay it outside for
the night in a safe place and allow the moon’s natural energies to
charge it.
Some people use their breath to cleanse their crystals by gently
blowing on them.
You can meditate with the crystal and use your intuition to clear it!
CHOOSING CRYSTALS
I know when I need a new crystal as I tend to sense it. I then go and have
a good look around the shops near me that sell crystals. I might see one
that I have looked at before which hadn’t previously interested me, but
now feel drawn to it. Likewise, I might look at a crystal that has the
appropriate properties relating to something that I specifically need help
with. I always handle the crystal and see if it feels right. Sometimes, I am
attracted to a crystal although it doesn’t seem to relate to anything that I
am thinking about at that time, but it often turns out to answer a future
need that I was not aware of when I bought it. You can also get the same
sense of being drawn to a crystal by looking at them online, so don’t
worry if there are no crystal shops near where you live. I have bought
some of my absolute favourite crystals from online shops. See
Resources, here, for some of my favourites.
CRYSTALS AND THEIR PROPERTIES
There are tons of different crystals, stones and rocks that you can use for
your magickal workings–so many that this entire book could be filled with
just this one subject. Over time, you will discover more and more about
which crystals assist you best for which purpose. To begin with, we will
start with the common crystals used for spell work, meditation and
divination. Here are a few guidelines about stones and their relevant
uses: A–F
Abalone shell–calming and stress-reducing
Agate–healing, soothing and concentration
Amazonite–truth and harmony
Amber–protection, healing and soothingAmber–protection, healing and soothing
Amethyst–calming, aids sleep and physical and emotional healing
Angel aura quartz–harmony, peace and spirituality Apatite–success
and clarity
Apophyllite–instinct and intuition
Aquamarine–reflection, meditation and wisdom Azurite–intuition,
clarity, relaxation
Black tourmaline–balance and positivity
Bloodstone–energy and well-being
Blue agate–healing, calming and communication Blue quartz–calming
and organisation
Carnelian–creativity and confidence
Celestite–reduces stress
Chrysoprase–happiness and mental well-being Citrine–concentration,
positivity and success Clear quartz–health, healing and clarity
Diamond–creativity, energising, self-confidence and commitment
Dumortierite–physical healing, cerebral power, spirituality and
positivity Emerald–healing, love, faithfulness and friendship
Fluorite–concentration, balance and cleansing Fuchsite–
communication, strength and recovery G–K
Garnet–energising, protection and courage
Goldstone–detoxification, intuition and inner strength Haematite–
positivity, balance, concentration and stress-reducing Jade–
protection, positivity, good fortune and independence Jasper–
strength, healing and sexual energy
L–P
Labradorite–determination and intuition
Lapis lazuli–learning, strength and prosperity Malachite–peace,
empathy and energy
Mookaite–nurturing, peace and confidence
Moonstone–stability, calm, insight and creativity Obsidian–protection,
truth and forward-thinking Onyx–constancy, balance and resilience
Opal–creativity, positivity and soothingOpal–creativity, positivity and soothing
Pearl–calming, stability and purity
Peridot–optimism and attracting love
Pyrite–protection, health and well-being
Q–U
Rhodochrosite–positivity, calming and encourages love Rhyolite–
healing and moving forwards
Rose quartz–love and forgiveness
Ruby–protection, courage and happiness
Sapphire–wisdom and mental well-being
Selenite–healing, protection and luck
Serpentine–soothing, confidence and cleansing Smokey quartz–
protection and converts negative energy Sodalite–communication,
calming and self-esteem Spirit quartz–detoxification, spiritual
growth and connecting to others Sunstone–cleansing, healing and
creativity
Tiger’s eye–decisiveness, luck and mental well-being Topaz–healing,
happiness, truth and joy
Tourmaline–balance and healing
Turquoise–healing, protection and good luck V–Z
Zircon–healing, wisdom, protection and spirituality19.
Herbs and Plants
For thousands of years, herbs have been used for their medicinal,
symbolic, culinary, cosmetic and aromatic properties. Because herbs
have been relatively easily available, they have been the basis of many
home-made treatments such as mint tea for an upset stomach and
lavender as an antiseptic and to help induce sleep. Used in the correct
way in magickal workings, herbs can have very powerful effects.
Herbs are commonly used to create potions, to consecrate items, to
bathe in, for burning and for physical and mental healing. You can also
make teas and drinkable herbal remedies, use them in tasseography, a
form of divination, and you can cook with them. Cooking involves adding
relevant herbs for the reason that you’ve chosen to do the spell. Some
people even carry herbs around with them in a bag to bring different
elements to specific situations.
Similarly, hanging different herbs in your home can attract elements
into your space, as well as being specific to your preferred deities. Others
may be used to calm and relax your home.
You can buy herbs from local shops. It’s best to buy them with roots,
in pots, so you can use them freshly picked and dry them for a later date
if needs be. (Some can only easily be found in dried form, however.) It is
really fun to grow herbs in your very own magickal herb garden, which
can be as small as a few pots on your kitchen window sill or an
aesthetically pleasing herb wheel in the garden.
It’s really important to consider the natural world when using, eating or
picking anything from it. This is something that you will come across
frequently throughout Wicca. The best plan is that whenever you take
something, give back by watering the area, planting new seeds in or
around the same place or, if this is not possible, plant some seeds
somewhere appropriate. Also, please be aware that some plants are
protected and should not be taken from the wild under anycircumstances.
Never be greedy–only use what is necessary–keep balance in mind
and always leave some for the earth. Herbs are incredibly important and
powerful and can be used within magick with amazing results. Obviously,
there are thousands of different herbs growing around the planet, so
listing them all would be impossible and there are always new ones to
discover and use in different ways, which is both exciting and
overwhelming.
Plants have numerous correspondences and uses in magickal
workings–I have listed a few, but there are so many so please do some
research and try things out to see which ones work for you.*
A–F
Basil–love, good fortune and joy, helps nausea, anxiety and headaches
Bay–promotes extrasensory power and expels negative energy
Burdock–protection, healing, detoxifying, helps skin problems
Caraway–loyalty, memory, general health, antibacterial and helps
digestive problems Catnip–love, good fortune, helps constipation,
anxiety and sleeplessness Cayenne–protection, digestion,
antibacterial, helps painful joints Cinnamon–strength, spirituality,
good fortune, passion, antioxidant and antibacterial Clove–
friendship, new love, keeps secrets, energy-boosting, antiseptic,
anaesthetising Cocoa beans–intuition, creativity, antioxidant,
healing, mood-boosting Cumin–protection, loyalty, helps digestion
Dandelion–purification, positivity, antioxidant, antibacterial Devil’s
shoestring–protection and good fortune
Dill–protection, good fortune, helps digestion, menstrual problems
Dragon’s blood–protection, wound repair
Elder–calming, prosperity, liberation, berries for immunity, flowers
for sinuses Eucalyptus–protection, cleansing, decongestant,
antiseptic, antibacterial Fennell–sexuality, strength, anti-ageing,
menstrual problems, lowers cholesterol Flax–prosperity, healing,
psychic abilities, antioxidant, anti-inflammatory, helps menopausalsymptoms G–K
Galangal root–money, digestion, rheumatism
Garlic–protection, purification, circulation, immune system,
detoxification, antioxidant Ginger–self-assurance, sensuality, helps
nausea, anti-inflammatory and antioxidant Ginseng–good fortune,
desire, attractiveness, anti-inflammatory, stress-reducing, helps
sexual dysfunction Hawthorn–fertility, purification, heart stimulant
soothes throats Hazel–antioxidant, healing, protection and
knowledge Hibiscus–passion, liberation, peacefulness, speeds
metabolism, lowers blood pressure and cholesterol Honeysuckle–
passion, good fortune
Hyssop–expectorant, purification, protection and positivity Jasmine–
desirability, good fortune, skincare, antidepressant Juniper–
protection, antibacterial, antiviral
L–P
Lavender–cleansing, healing, joy, romance and helps sleep Lemon
balm–passion, achievement, calming, antioxidant Lilac–love,
exorcism, creativity
Marigold–respect, soothes skin, helps menstrual pain Meadowsweet–
luck, happiness, calming, helps indigestion, headaches and colds
Mint–energy, helps nausea and digestive system, soothes throats
Mugwort–sedative, purification, stimulates psychic ability Myrtle–
cleansing, antiseptic
Parsley–passion, divination, fertility, anti-inflammatory Patchouli–
soothes bites and stings, calming, aphrodisiac Pepper–banishing,
bravery, antibacterial, antioxidant Peppermint–divination, sleep,
purification, helps nausea, settles stomachs, helps colds Pine–
fertility, good fortune, stamina, pick-me-up, expectorant Q–U
Raspberry Leaf–protection, love, regulates hormones, induces labour,
clears skin Rose Petal–beauty, romance, weddings, protection,
decongestant, aphrodisiac
Rosehips–good fortune, peace, love, laxative, immunity, renews skinRosehips–good fortune, peace, love, laxative, immunity, renews skin
Rosemary–clarity, cleansing, breaking spells, healing, respiratory,
improves memory
Rowan–clarity, divination, digestion, immune system Sage–strength,
wisdom, cleansing, helps indigestion, soothes throats, anti-
inflammatory St John’s Wort–protection, healing
Salt–cleansing, purification, healing, attracts energy Sandalwood–
healing, protection, positivity, calming Seaweed–good fortune,
detoxification
Skullcap–clarity, exorcism, restorative
Thyme–purification, calming, helps aches and pains Turmeric–
passion, fertility, digestion
V–Z
Valerian–calming, aphrodisiac
Vanilla–happiness, energy, love
Vervain–protection, balance, love, cleansing
Violet–luck, love, calming
Walnut–divination, understanding, concentration, creativity Willow–
inspiration, identity
Witch hazel–optimism, courage, psychic powers
Wormwood–banishing, protection
Yarrow–healing, love, divination
*Caution: Some plants may be poisonous or harmful if eaten. Please research the herb
thoroughly–some are only useful as incense, essential oils or for use in magickal workings.
Please also be aware that even if something is safe to eat in small amounts, too much of it might
prove toxic.20.
The Witches’ Alphabet
The Witches’ alphabet is a secret alphabet that witches, Wiccans and
pagans can use to write spells, codes, important notes and messages
they may want to keep secret and not reveal to anybody who does not
have knowledge of the Witches’ alphabet. This alphabet is commonly
used in a Wiccan’s Book of Shadows and in Grimoires. The symbols
used are believed to possess immense power and to have magickal
properties and, for several centuries, witches have used this alphabet as
their own. The actual origin of this alphabet is uncertain but there is
evidence that it was used in the sixteenth century in Three Books of the
Occult Philosophy. This alphabet can be very helpful, especially to those
who do not want to reveal their practices to anyone else, particularly if
you are practising Wicca or witchcraft secretly. The alphabet is
sometimes referred to as ‘the Honorian alphabet’. You can write it in the
same way as you would write regular letters, positioning them side by
side, or you can write them descending down the page, which makes a
sigil. There are tons of different alphabets and symbols that people like to
use to keep their workings hidden, so you can choose whichever ones
most appeal to you or none at all, if you do not wish to.Another commonly seen alphabet is the runic Elder Futhark alphabet.
This is seen on the rune stones used in divination. These symbols are
also believed to have extremely powerful properties when using them to
write, for spell work and messages.21.
Astrology
Astrology can be an important factor in Wiccans’ lives. It is becoming
increasingly popular in the modern world, although it has been around for
centuries. As we have discussed, Wiccans live by the natural world,
which includes the sun, the moon and the stars.
The position of the stars and planets in relation to the sun can have an
effect on us in many ways; it can determine our temperament and our
mood and can be used to tell the future. There are twelve sun signs, or
zodiac signs, and yours will depend on the position of the sun at the time
of your birth.
People who are born in the same period of time as someone else can
have similar personality traits and yet two people with different
astrological signs can clash or can work together incredibly well. We can
exhibit other qualities from other signs, especially if our birthday is close
to the end of our sign’s cycle. Each sign also relates to one of the
elements–earth, air, fire and water–and these, again, can affect your
personality and your relationships with other people.
There are lots of correspondences relating to your astrological sign
that you may be able to use to your advantage in Wicca. For example,
earth signs might find strength from growing and using herbs and plants
and might find meditating beneath trees particularly beneficial or easy.
You could also work with your relevant element in rituals, for example fire
signs might make particular use of relevant candles. You can also work
with your personality traits, for instance, Geminis might be happier in a
coven than being solitary Wiccans.
SUN ASTROLOGY SIGNS AND THEIR
CORRESPONDENCESARIES
Date for sign: 21 March–19 April The Ram
Planet: Mars
Crystal or stone: Diamond Colour: Red
Herb or plant: Paprika Element: Fire
Aries are strong, competitive, driven and have great ambition. They can
also be extremely short-fused and independent. They work best alone or
in complete charge of aspects of their life and don’t have a good temper
for those who don’t want to work as hard as they do. But their energy is
pure. They are generous and bright, like the element they relate to. It’s
always good to have a friend that’s an Aries as they are always there for
you, loyal and respectful, but they will be upfront and honest with you too.
If you give them the friendship they deserve and treat them with respect,
they will return it.
TAURUS
Date for sign: 20 April–20 May The Bull
Planet: Venus
Crystal or stone: Emerald Colour: Blue
Herb or plant: Rosemary Element: Earth
Taureans are overly stubborn, which can be a blessing and a curse. They
have strong desires, and once they have their mind set on something,
they are willing to do whatever it takes to achieve their goal, which makes
them good workers too. They can fall hard in love or not care at all. They
hate dishonesty and will do anything to avoid people that are not honest
with them. They have an incredible bond with nature and prefer to spend
their days alone or with one or two close friends. They love indulging
themselves in food and luxuries, sometimes a little too much, and can
sometimes be lazy if they let themselves slip into bad habits. They do notlike people who are overly negative and will steer clear of them like the
plague.
GEMINI
Date for sign: 21 May–20 June The Twins
Planet: Mercury Crystal or stone: Pearl Colour: Yellow
Herb or plant: Lavender Element: Air
Geminis have an extreme passion for keeping busy and like to stay
focused and involved in every task they have to hand. They are
incredible at visualising and are very good at planning and keeping things
organised. They are extremely clever and enjoy education in some form.
They are also fun people who love to make others laugh and enjoy being
surrounded by lots of people at once. They have a wide circle of friends
and never like to be alone, especially when it comes to being in a
relationship or partnership. Sometimes Geminis cannot be trusted with
secrets and gossip, but they always have others’ best intentions at heart.
CANCER
Date for sign: 21 June–22 July The Crab
Planet: The moon Crystal or stone: Ruby Colour: Violet
Herb or plant: Balm Element: Water
Cancerians are extremely sensitive and emotional, they tend to take
everything to heart and always put others before themselves. This can
sometimes make them vulnerable, so many like to build an imaginary
wall to protect themselves from getting hurt. Cancerians are extremely
sentimental people who like to keep old close friends near them and they
like to know that their possessions are kept safe. They love caring for
others and love children and nurturing animals too. Cancerians arenatural healers, who have a special connection to the goddess.
LEO
Date for sign: 23 July–22 August The Lion
Planet: The sun Crystal or stone: Peridot Colour: Orange
Herb or plant: Heliotrope Element: Fire
Leos are fiery people who like to be in charge; they love being in control
and like to have things their way. They have a short temper and trust
themselves and their instincts in everything they do. They work hard and
excel in their careers. Leos are naturally smart and love to soak up
knowledge in their studies and their hobbies. They are also extremely
picky about their friends, but make them easily, are dedicated and stick
with friends for life. They have a high energy rate and love to bounce
around and explore, but they also love relaxing and being lazy
sometimes too.
VIRGO
Date of sign: 23 August–22 September The Virgin
Planet: Mercury Crystal or stone: Sapphire Colour: Grey
Herb or plant: Fennel Element: Earth
Virgos are extremely practical, clean people who can’t stand mess,
untidiness, anything unsanitary; they can be very uptight about this. They
can sometimes be very critical of others who don’t share the same
opinions. Otherwise, they are very down to earth and are also very
sensitive to situations. Virgos are wonderful at organising and will always
be the friend to arrange trips and meetings with their companions. They
love the countryside and greenery and love to spend time in the garden
in the summer.LIBRA
Date of sign: 23 September–22 October The Scales
Planet: Venus
Crystal or stone: Opal Colour: Purple
Herb or plant: Sage Element: Air
Librans are creative, passionate and have a spark of excellence. They
love to love and to receive love. If Librans don’t have love returned to
them they can be extremely sad; it takes a lot longer for Librans to get
over relationships than any other sign. They have huge ambitions for the
more creative careers and love to entertain and spark people’s interest.
Librans are always there to help anyone who needs it and are very loyal
at keeping promises and secrets. They love living the fast life and
spending money on irrelevant things, but this brings them joy and they
manage it the best they can.
SCORPIO
Date of sign: 23 October–21 November The Scorpion
Planet: Pluto
Crystal or stone: Topaz Colour: Indigo
Herb or plant: Heather Element: Water
Scorpios are irresistible. They love sex and passion, and always have a
fantastic sense of style. They are admired by many people and have lots
of people lusting in their direction, but they are extremely loving to
partners and others that require attention in their life. Getting on the
wrong side of a Scorpio can be a huge mistake; they hold grudges and
remember everything, which can be a disadvantage to people who have
let them down in some way. They are very charismatic and love to be at
the top of their game. They can be jealous, competitive and dominating
but, to the right person, loving and protective.SAGITTARIUS
Date of sign: 22 November–21 December The Archer
Planet: Jupiter Crystal or stone: Turquoise Colour: White
Herb or plant: Elder Element: Fire
Sagittarians are extremely cultured, knowledgeable and well-travelled.
They love to explore, go on holidays and experience the world. They
enjoy learning new things and leading busy and successful lives and they
get bored very easily. They hate liars and must discover the truth in
everything. Sagittarians have expensive tastes, but believe in working
hard to obtain the things that they want. They can sometimes be selfish
and not think about others before they think about themselves, but
always keep their loved ones in their heart. They can be very strong, but
once you upset them, they can take your comments to heart.
CAPRICORN
Date of sign: 22 December–19 January The Goat
Planet: Saturn
Crystal or stone: Garnet Colour: Black
Herb or plant: Comfrey Element: Earth
Capricorns are always full of life; they radiate positivity and beauty, and
often look younger than they actually are. They love to challenge
themselves within their passions, which can make them competitive.
They love having a safe and secure environment at all times and can
sometimes put their guard up to people before they get to know them.
They love to have fun and be silly and make jokes and are often known
as ‘the funny one’, while still being organised and good at getting things
done. Everybody loves Capricorns; they are very easy to fall for and
people often want to be around them all of the time.AQUARIUS
Date of sign: 20 January–18 February The Water Carrier
Planet: Uranus
Crystal or stone: Amethyst Colour: Pale blue or aqua Herb or
plant: Thyme Element: Air
Aquarians are lone wolves. They are very independent and love to work
alone and be alone very frequently; they don’t deal well with a lot of
people, but still like to have many friends to see individually. They can
sometimes be controlling and love taking the reins on things. They can
be very jealous and sometimes just need someone to be around to make
them relax. They drive themselves to greatness and don’t need others to
motivate them. They hate it when unfair situations hit them and believe
everybody should be truthful and fair.
PISCES
Date of sign: 19 February–20 March The Fish
Planet: Neptune Crystal or stone: Aquamarine Colour: Green
Herb or plant: Parsley Element: Water
Pisces are prone to psychic abilities. They are good at adapting to people
and are good with social media. They also love to get away from the
crazy world and take a break every so often to retreat. They are not
always the best at dealing with situations and can become unnecessarily
angry and upset. They are also creative and like to heal and care for the
ones they love. Pisces are wonderful at forgiveness, but can hold
grudges against people who have done them injustices. They are always
looking for something new and do not settle for anything less than
perfection within their relationships, careers and hobbies.22.
Small Changes
Jumping into Wicca can seem to be extremely complicated and
overwhelming to begin with. Where do I start? Which tools do I need
first? What do I learn about first? Which path should I follow? For me, the
key to starting off your Wicca journey simply and effectively (I wish I had
done it this way!) is to take gradual steps, to dip your toe into it rather
than trying to jump in with both feet! Make small changes in order to learn
about your faith gradually, enjoy it, savour the wonderful aspects of
Wicca, all of the time remembering that as it slowly becomes part of your
everyday life it is the most positive, interesting, natural, genuine path that
can help your well-being too.
Following are some small changes to adapt your life to Wicca at the
beginning of your journey.
CELEBRATE THE SABBATS AND ESBATS
One of the first and most effective changes to make to your life is to
begin celebrating the eight Sabbats and twelve main Esbats. This can be
very easy for a number of reasons. First, many of the holidays that you
may already celebrate, such as Christmas, Easter, Halloween, etc., are
actually adapted from the pagan holidays, Yule, Ostara and Samhain,
which are the ones that Wiccans celebrate. They are on (or around) the
same date and are celebrated in some of the same ways.
So, instead of being celebrated because of Christian beliefs, we call
them by their original names and celebrate them in the traditional way by
honouring the seasonal changes.
If you have family and friends who are not Wiccans, then the Sabbats
can tie into their celebrations too; you won’t feel isolated from their
holidays and rejoicing, even though you are celebrating for differentreasons. Focusing on the celebrations is also an extremely fun way to
learn about the Sabbats (and Wicca!). It is also relevant to spell work and
the understanding of what Wicca is all about. Learning about the cycle of
the Wheel of the Year and the Wiccan calendar is also a good starting
point in understanding the faith.
CREATE A BASIC ALTAR
Another good way to start your Wicca journey is to create a basic altar
(see here). This gives you a place you can come to if you’re feeling lost;
somewhere to just be and feel grounded. Start by collecting or making
the basics: a pentagram, maybe two candles to represent the god and
the goddess, and also four things to signify the elements, such as, salt,
water, sage or incense, and a candle. Create a small area on a desk or a
shelf to begin to incorporate Wicca into your life visually. You could also
add your first form of divination to your altar. I would recommend starting
with tarot cards; even though I’m aware that every Wiccan has their own
preferred methods of divination, the cards can be easy to start with
because they are easy to understand and most have a booklet with
meanings and explanations included.
READ
The most important thing that I advise new Wiccans to do is to read,
read, read and research. It’s important to learn about the history of Wicca
and to be sure that you feel this is appropriate for you, before you go any
further. It’s always important to read up on any subject within Wicca
before you put it into practice. Wicca is, of course, about discovery, and
we shouldn’t be scared of anything within it, but that doesn’t mean we
should just skip the reasoning behind what we are learning. Prior
research can help with the accuracy of your workings, improve your
judgement and minimise time wasted. I would recommend, to brush up
on the basics, taking about half an hour every day, or a few hours at the
weekend, to read around a new subject. Frequent, short bursts of
research are easier to find time for and to get your head around. There
are so many subjects to learn, so pick one aspect of Wicca that appeals
to you, explore it and practise it, and it will soon start to fall into place.You will also learn about which parts of the faith are the most important
and relevant to you, and those are the aspects that you will want to invest
most of your time into. Even now, I put aside time nearly every day to
learn something new in Wicca. There’s so much to learn, you’ll never
stop!
PRACTISE SPELL WORK
Starting the witchcraft side of your journey can seem scary and extremely
intense. Don’t panic! I would always recommend starting off with small
spells (see here) to dip your toes into witchcraft. Divination is always
good to practise to begin with, but basic, easy, non-intense spells are
amazing too. A good example is learning how to cast a circle (see Part 3,
Spell Work) and maybe just practise achieving the flow of casting your
circle, opening and closing it. Then it won’t feel as though there is way
too much to think about when you do decide to do your first official spell
or ritual.
An old friend once taught me how to do spells during cooking and
baking, which ended up being the best way to kick-start my spell work
because it was incorporating witchcraft into something that was a normal
aspect of my everyday life. So, it could be something as simple as maybe
cooking for a friend who is having troubles with their career and adding
some ingredients that have relevance to luck and power and motivation.
You could say something along the lines of, ‘I cast only hope and luck,
bless these ingredients to help be unstuck, forward now this spell will
take me, for once is done I will be where I’m meant to be.’
Other spells that you could incorporate into aspects of your day-to-day
life that won’t feel too strange could be creating potions for your baths or
maybe lotions to apply to your skin. An example of this could be if you
need to increase romantic aspects of your love life, you could create a
lotion or bath potion with herbs relevant to romance, such as rose,
camomile and lavender, etc.
FIND YOUR PATH
One of the greatest things about Wicca is that everyone practises the
faith differently. There are so many different beliefs and practice methodsthat it gives people the opportunity to do things their own way within the
faith. A small change to make at the start of your journey is to begin to
look into paths you feel you may be interested in. There are so many to
explore and discover. A good start would be to look at different ‘types’ of
Wiccans and the teachings they follow and think about which deities you
feel connected to. This can help give you a direction to explore an identity
within Wicca. This will help your confidence and motivation. If you don’t
know what ‘type’ of Wiccan you are and can’t decide, that’s totally fine
too! Some Wiccans prefer to be without a ‘type’, some discover at a later
date and some may follow one Wicca path and a particular set of
teachings for a year and then change. As a Wiccan, you are free.
KEEP A JOURNAL
Documenting your progress as a Wiccan can be very important; it’s a
good way to keep track of what you have achieved and to look back on
for future reference. You might not want to start your Book of Shadows or
Grimoire when you’re first starting out, you might want to wait until you
have got into the swing of things. Keeping a casual journal allows you to
record experiments, experiences, thoughts, changes you have made and
ideas for further research and future practice without the pressure of the
significance of recording in your Book of Shadows. It keeps the process
more loose and casual as many Wiccans, myself included, are very
precious about their Book of Shadows.
JOIN THE WICCA COMMUNITY
This is totally optional and, once again, can seem slightly scary if you’re
jumping into this and, of course, it’s totally okay if you’d prefer to keep
your Wicca journey to yourself. You can immerse yourself in the Wicca
community in a number of ways: you could join pagan, Wiccan and witch
apps, Facebook forums, Instagram pages or just speak to people you
know who may be in any way ‘spiritual’. They may know more about
paganism or Wicca than you think and they may have other friends and
connections to people who can help you. If you live near any crystal or
pagan shops, the people who run and work in them are usually interested
in the things that they sell and are also in a good position to meetWiccans. Never feel pressured to speak to anyone about your faith, if you
don’t feel comfortable doing so; it took me years to speak out. It can be
helpful to talk to others who may have been practising the faith longer
than you and also to other newbies for tips and to share experiences. I
learned a lot of what I know about Wicca from a kind woman who I once
spoke to in (of all places) a pub!
A FEW WORDS OF CAUTION
Wicca is an amazing faith and there is so much to be excited to
experience within your journey. As I mentioned before, the learning never
stops and you have a new, positive focus for many parts of your life. It’s
wonderful and empowering and it can open your eyes to a new world;
there is nothing to fear about Wicca or the witchcraft that comes with the
faith. However, saying that, there are a few things that new Wiccans
need to bear in mind; it is easy to get caught up in the wonderfulness of
Wicca and forget its true meaning.
IT’S A FAITH, NOT AN AESTHETIC
If you are getting into Wicca because it is trendy, a fashion statement or
perhaps you are hoping to gain from it in an unhealthy way, Stop Now!
Wicca is very powerful and the power that comes with it can have a
greater effect than you think. If you are casting spells for the wrong
reasons, joining Wicca with less than good intentions and taking the faith
too lightly, it will backfire. It’s totally okay to enjoy the witchy, Wiccan
aesthetic without actually practising Wicca if that’s the aspect of it that
appeals to you. However, the foundation of being a good Wiccan has
nothing to do with having to dress, look and decorate yourself and your
surroundings in a certain way. It’s about using what you’ve got, being
who you are and about your intent. If your intentions are not reflecting the
right causes, that energy will come back to you.
DON’T LET THE POWER GET TO YOUR HEAD
As I said before, Wicca is incredible and can make you feel verypowerful. When you are casting spells, with a bit of experience and
success, it can be extremely liberating. Sometimes, that power can easily
cross a line and be abused. Balance is key: magick is a gift from the
earth, the lord and the lady, it does not make you any better than anyone
else nor does it give you the authority to make decisions that you are not
meant to make. You are not a god and you have these gifts because the
earth has given you magick. Remember the law and its teachings–we are
all equal, Wiccan or not.
DON’T BITE OFF MORE THAN YOU CAN CHEW
Wicca is a very exciting faith; sometimes it makes you feel like you want
to know everything and do everything right now. This mentality can lead
to biting off more than you can chew, casting spells you may not be ready
for, draining your energy, making mistakes and rushing through important
elements of your journey that would benefit from a slower approach.
Remember, if you’re serious about the faith and you know that you’re
‘meant’ to be a Wiccan, you can spend the rest of your lifetime enjoying
this journey. I honestly believe that you can never ever know everything
about Wicca; even some of the most powerful and experienced Wiccans
that I have met tell me that they still haven’t made a dent in all that they
could know about Wicca. It’s like thinking that you could know everything
about the entire universe! It doesn’t make you any less of a Wiccan if
someone knows a spell that you don’t or knows how to palm-read and
you don’t. It’s a gradual process and you will get there in your own time.
Patience and practice are key.
BEWARE NEGATIVE ENERGIES AND SHADOWS
Wicca is nothing to be scared of–we can conquer pretty much anything
with our intent, the natural world and our five senses. There can
sometimes be ‘disturbances’ to your practices; negative energies and
spirits can occasionally interfere. These could be sprits and energies
known to this world or they could be a ‘friend’ radiating negativity, which
disturbs the outcome of a ritual or spell. They can latch onto that energy
that you are emitting from your aura. Some intrusive energies can evenpush past your circles and some come if you conjure them, letting them
in. Summon them–why would you? So, be careful while casting spells
while you are feeling low or negative or angry, these energies and sprits
can feed off you. Sometimes they can come if you’ve had a day when
you’re feeling sad and maybe don’t even realise you’re too low to cast a
spell and you can feel them attacking your circle. If this does happen, be
sure to banish them or if you have nothing else at hand, at least cleanse
the area before closing your circle or continuing what you’re doing. This
is why it’s important to be in a neutral state or in a good mood while doing
magick. You are more powerful than these energies and shadows; they
can be scary but they are still nothing to fear and should not stop you
from practising magick.23.
When Others Don’t Accept Your Faith
When you embark on your Wicca journey, even in this day and age, it is
inevitable that you are going to be misunderstood by some people.
Wiccans and witches all over the world have to deal with misconceptions
and hostility because of a long history of an extremely warped portrayal
of witches.
Over the years, I have had countless experiences of comments, both
in person and online, from people who are confused and uneducated
about Wicca.
Television shows, films and books about fictional witches, as
enjoyable and harmless as they are, are often mistakenly taken to be a
true picture of the Wicca path. I’ve often met people who expect me to
use my wand in the same way as Harry Potter, swishing it in mid-air to
make a chair levitate. Other misconceptions can be more harmful, such
as the idea that we all sacrifice animals, worship Satan, want to cause
harm to everything and everyone, hate all Christians and are damned,
evil people. In reality, Wicca teaches the complete opposite of this fiction.
The faith creates an understanding of the universe that helps you to love
and respect and have compassion for everything and everyone.
Another major misconception is around the use of the pentagram,
which is, of course, the main symbol of our faith. To Wiccans, the
pentagram simply represents the elements, but it has been
misrepresented in the media and many people think that it is a symbol for
worshiping Satan or all evil.
I am also often told that our Wicca faith somehow goes against other
people’s belief in their ‘god’. Wiccans are in no way hostile to other
people’s religious beliefs. We accept that everyone has the right to their
own ideas and philosophies and that diversity makes for an interesting
and healthy society.WHAT TO DO IF PEOPLE DON’T ACCEPT IT
It’s important not to become angry or annoyed; the general lack of
understanding is just part of life and you will become used to it. However,
there are a few things that you could try:
First, educate. If you just come out and say, ‘I’m a Wiccan and I
practise witchcraft’, it can sometimes be a shock to people close to
you. Maybe explain the basics of what being a Wiccan means and
especially what the witchcraft side of Wicca entails. Find a good article
or website to show them that demystifies the misconceptions about
Wicca. Often, people are more tolerant and less prejudiced once they
have the facts–and realise that you’re not trying to be Harry Potter!
If you feel comfortable enough, maybe show them what you actually
do, possibly something as straightforward as a cooking spell or some
divination, which tons of people who don’t declare themselves as
witches would also do. This can help show how harmless and positive
your practices are.
Show them what other witches and Wiccans are actually like. People
often have a preconceived mental image of what witches and Wiccans
look like and how they (don’t) fit into society and daily life! Sharing
YouTube videos, pictures from Instagram and blogs by your favourite
witches and Wiccans who are successful, positive and compassionate
will show that your aspirations in Wicca are not dangerous.
And lastly, the most important one: normalise it. Yes–Wicca is exciting,
powerful and, in many ways, far from normal, but it’s sometimes best
to treat it like it’s not really a big deal. This can then calm someone
close to you who may feel confused or overwhelmed about the idea
that you are practising witchcraft. Maybe you could show them some
of the elements of what you do in witchcraft that are very similar to
things that they might do on a day-to-day basis. For example, so many
people enjoy growing their own herbs and plants and they might
regularly make home remedies from these, such as mixing lemon,
ginger and honey together to soothe a sore throat. Many non-Wiccans
also wear precious stones as pendants and rings because they havespecial sentiments, memories or meanings attached to particular types
of gemstones; which is a similar concept to the way that Wiccans
might wear an amethyst on a pendant or keep one in their pocket for
protection. These examples are obviously different to creating a spell
or potion with intent, but the actual foundation of what many people do
as superstitions, for fun and to relate to elements of the natural world
is not really that far from mixing a potion and casting a spell.
Another example of normalising your practice would be explaining how
and why you have an altar. When people enjoy a hobby, such as
playing an instrument or painting, they collect materials and tools
connected to and for use in their interest and often get satisfaction
from displaying symbolic, useful, sentimental or treasured items.
Again, the comparison has flaws, but it can help others to see that
your actions are not so unusual.
Unfortunately, however you try to explain your faith, some people will
never accept it. For whatever reason, you might find that your choices
affect others enough for them to even ask you to stop practising Wicca or
they may not want to be in your life any more. Some may not even be
willing to listen to your reasoning. All you can do is explain why it’s
important to you and the positive effects that it has on your life. If neither
of you are willing to compromise, you will both have difficult decisions to
make. Sometimes you just have to accept that people will never
understand it, don’t argue; just move on. At the end of the day, as a
Wiccan, you are the living proof of what Wicca is all about–show the
world how a really awesome, fair, kind Wiccan looks and acts. After all,
you don’t need everyone’s acceptance in order to do what makes you
happy.
COMING OUT OF THE BROOM CLOSET
Coming out of the broom closet is a term that means coming out as a
witch or a Wiccan. At some point, you may decide that you want to be
open about your spiritual path, as many people enjoy sharing major parts
of their lives with close friends and loved ones. You may feel that your
secretive practice is like a weight on your shoulders that you could dowithout. This can be a major decision for some Wiccans who are
uncertain what sort of reaction they will face.
I’m very fortunate in that my family are very open and accepting to
whatever I do to improve my well-being and even though they don’t
always understand parts of my practices, they trust me and respect my
decisions. You will invariably get mixed reactions when you do actually
come out of the broom closet. People close to you might be interested in
finding out more, or they may be indifferent and really not bothered,
worried about you (probably because of misconceptions), cross that you
have been hiding this from them or they may be extremely emotional,
upset or even angry.
It’s completely your decision whether it’s possible, at this moment in
time, to come out to your family and friends; you may not even see it as a
big deal and just treat it as a normal, everyday conversation.
If you’re worried about this, I would recommend maybe explaining it as
a nature-based religion–because it is! Make sure to try to be as respectful
as you can, particularly if you are discussing it with anyone who has
extreme religious beliefs or deep-rooted principles against witchcraft. It’s
sometimes difficult to swallow your pride and not shout and scream at the
top of your lungs when people refuse to accept your beliefs, but
sometimes–and you might be pleasantly surprised–it all works out for the
best and allows you to continue your path within Wicca in a more open
way. It’s important to remember that some people will have never heard
of Wicca; respect this and explain it in the best way that you can!24.
Wicca on the Sly
Unfortunately, not everyone is able to be open about their Wicca
journeys. As with other faiths, you might find that Wicca is misunderstood
or unaccepted by either your family, friends, your community or maybe by
people who follow other religions. Even though you may be certain that
Wicca is the correct path for you, you might find yourself having to keep
your practices private, either temporarily or permanently. This can be
extremely challenging. If you have experience of this and can share your
stories with other Wiccans who might be going through similar prejudices,
be sure to speak to them and be there for them as much as you can.
Having someone to talk to can help in so many ways if you feel isolated
and misunderstood. You might just want to keep your faith quiet because
you feel that it is nobody else’s business–and, of course, this is totally
fine too!
WHY ARE YOU KEEPING QUIET?
It is a good idea to think about why you are keeping your Wicca practices
quiet. Is it completely necessary? Consider whether you are keeping your
faith quiet for you or for someone else.
Having to keep this quiet from your parents is one of the most difficult
challenges. This is made even harder if you live with them. They might
follow a different religion, they might not agree with witchcraft or you
could even be afraid of them teasing you or not taking you seriously. If
you feel comfortable enough, it may be worth having a conversation with
them about Wicca, discussing what it’s all about and why it makes sense
to you and explaining how it brings you positivity and happiness. If you
are certain that they won’t accept it or think that they may not be open-
minded enough for a discussion, then you might have to accept that it willbe necessary to keep your Wicca journey quiet.
If you are keeping this quiet from a partner, again, ask yourself why
you are doing this. Is it completely necessary or are you just assuming
that you already know their reaction to your choices? Really consider why
you feel this way and whether it makes logical sense. If at all possible,
take a deep breath and talk it through with them. Your partner should be
supportive, understanding and listen to what you have to say about
subjects that are important to you. If Wicca benefits you, then it also
really benefits your partner. If you are in an unhealthy relationship
situation, please think about getting professional help, or at least talking
to someone that you can trust, especially if it is jeopardising your well-
being.
If you are keeping this quiet from friends, again it’s important to
consider why. Maybe you just feel that they wouldn’t understand or they
would judge you. It’s important to note your friends should be supportive,
especially if they care for your happiness and health.
WAYS TO PRACTISE WICCA ON THE SLY
So, for some reason, you have to hide your Wicca journey in your home?
Here are some ways to get around hiding your practices or making your
practices more subtle.
HIDING YOUR ALTAR
First, hiding your altar doesn’t have to be as difficult as you think; there
are lots of different ways that you can still carry on with your Wicca
practices without having an altar on show.
Having a temporary altar is probably the best option; setting it up
when and where you need to. You can have your tools maybe hidden in
a portable bag that you can lock, such as a rucksack with a padlock,
handbag or a small case. The downside is that you may have to have
fewer tools and, obviously, you might have to actually take them
everywhere with you. You could also have a set of altar tools that you
keep at someone else’s house, if you know someone that you can trust
with this. Another way of hiding your altar tools is in plain sight. I know
that sounds weird, but why not? It can be the easiest solution. Manypeople have candles, incense holders and herbs in their house, right?
You could also have some of the more unusual tools around in plain sight
as ornaments, just maybe make sure that they don’t have symbols on
them.
MAGICK ON THE SLY
Magick can be a little trickier, just because it requires attention, care and
time.
I would recommend performing it in public places, parks, fields, woods
and maybe even friends’ homes, if they don’t mind. These all work
wonderfully and I would recommend doing magick outside as much as
possible. Obviously, this can be more difficult when the weather is cold,
especially in the UK where it’s cold for at least half of the year. You can
also practise your magick when you’re home alone or in any space in
your house where you can be private and not disturbed for a period of
time.HIDE YOUR BOOK OF SHADOWS
Hiding your Book of Shadows or Grimoire can also be quite easy. Simply
acquire a diary that appeals to you and use that instead, ensuring that
you place a lock on it. If you feel the need to protect the contents of your
Book of Shadows, you can write in symbols or use a secret alphabet (see
here).
DON’T WAVE IT IN OTHER PEOPLE’S FACES
Even though not being able to express your faith freely can be very
frustrating, sometimes practising it in subtle ways, in a less
confrontational, more respectful way will help to keep the peace in your
household. As much as you might want to walk around with ‘I’m a witch,
get over it’ on your T-shirt and make your house into a Wiccan’s dream
lair, with pentagrams and herbs galore, a little compromise can go a long
way.
Remember, this may just be a temporary situation. If there is
something that actively becomes a problem and really bothers you, it’s in
your power to make a change; it’s not your fault that people refuse to
accept your choices. No matter what the reason for keeping your faith
quiet, consideration, discussion, patience and time usually sort most
problems!25.
City Wiccans
I grew up in the countryside in a beautiful house, surrounded by herbs,
flowers, trees and home-grown fruit and vegetables. We lived on the
edge of a small, rural town, so I’ve been lucky enough to have practically
everything that I need for my Wicca journey on my doorstep. However,
last December I moved to the city, not really realising what I would be
sacrificing by leaving the countryside. Yes–the city is great, there’s
always something interesting to do, a fantastic variety of places to eat
and pubs around every corner. But, being a Wiccan in the city gives you
a lot of new challenges and I have definitely discovered that the
countryside is where my heart is. Saying that, in the modern world, so
many Wiccans live in cities and it’s most certainly very possible to make
this work, even if we don’t have everything readily available on our
doorstep.
SITUATIONS THAT MAY AFFECT YOU AS A WICCAN
Not having a garden, or an outside or green space of any sort nearby,
can make it more difficult to collect the materials that you might need
for your magick.
Polluted air in the city can affect your health and the growth of your
plants. This problem can also affect your ability to see the moon and
the stars; which makes it harder to draw energy from the moon.
It can be more difficult to find the privacy that you may need for
witchcraft and other magickal workings.
Living and working in a city and being constantly surrounded by
activity, noise, concrete and a higher-density population can buildanxiety and drain your energy.
There are so many exciting and interesting diversions in a city–a full-on
lifestyle can sometimes leave you with little time, energy or motivation
for witchcraft.
Living in accommodation with rules that don’t allow candles, animals or
hanging items on walls can limit your magickal practices.
TIPS FOR CITY WICCANS
NOT HAVING A GARDEN OR LIMITED SPACE FOR
GROWING
If you have a small garden, you can definitely work with it to create
everything that you need. A courtyard garden, finished with gravel,
could be turned into a tranquil space with statues of your favourite
deities and maybe a water fountain for a calming energy. You could
also decorate your space with protective amulets. Or you could easily
fill it with pots, crates and other creative containers and make a mini
herb garden. You could include smaller pots of some of your favourite
flowers, fruit and vegetables to use in your practices. It may also be
worth placing netting on top of the plants in order to protect them from
neighbourhood cats. If you are worried about toxic fumes affecting
your edible plants, you may want to grow them inside on window sills.
If you do have a garden, plant flowers that encourage bees, butterflies
and other insects. A bird table providing food and water will encourage
birds too. A small pile of dead wood in a shady corner or a home-
made bug house will encourage mini-beasts. Making your garden
wildlife-friendly can really make you feel in balance with the natural
world–even in the middle of a city.
If you have room for an inside garden, there are still lots of ways you
can work around growing your own produce. You can keep potted
plants all around your home, as long as you take good care of them
and research into the correct conditions to help them thrive, such as
which temperatures they need, whether they require direct sunlightand how much water they need to keep them strong and healthy.
Good, low-maintenance plants are cacti and succulents such as aloe
vera and herbs such as basil and parsley. Some of them can be used
within spell work but just having plants around you can improve your
mood and make you feel that the natural world is closer to you. Herbs
kept by your windows are relatively easy to take care of, although
most herbs last longer if grown outside in the warmer weather. Bay,
sage, mint, dill, oregano, rosemary, tarragon and chives are just a few
of the herbs that can be eaten and used in magickal workings. Again,
look into any specific requirements that help these plants to thrive, but
most herbs are not too fussy and you should easily and relatively
cheaply have a display that smells amazing and is also really useful.
You can attempt to grow so many different plants in your house, but
sometimes it’s not that simple, or possible to cultivate the exact
materials that you need for your magick.
If you are unable to grow your own, you may have to source your
herbs and other plants from elsewhere. One amazing answer (time
and funds allowing!) is to look into renting or sharing an allotment.
They are often controlled by your local council or a charitable
organisation. For a relatively small amount of money, you lease a
section of land to grow almost any produce and flowers that you
choose. You have to be fairly hands-on and look after your plot and be
respectful of the other growers and their gardens, but if you gain
satisfaction from growing things on a bigger scale, this is a fantastic
way to grow produce to eat and to use for your magickal workings.
You will, however, often find that there is a waiting list for city
allotments.
A good thing about living in the city is that there are plenty of markets
and shops everywhere. Lots of places sell a fascinating variety of fresh
herbs that you can purchase as and when you need them for magick.
You could buy a bunch and if you have lots left over, dry them for later
use. You can just hang these around your house. Pre-dried herbs and
pre-packaged fresh herbs are also absolutely fine too. Yes, using your
own plant can increase accuracy, and your own personal energy
through the ingredients and tools, but your intent is always the most
important factor in your magickal workings.NOT HAVING A PLACE FOR OUTSIDE MAGICK
If you have a small garden, it can be difficult to do spell work here,
especially if it’s communal or not very private. You can still use your
garden for magickal workings, just maybe on a smaller scale. Focus
on what will be possible for your garden; maybe you could bring a
couple of tools outside to set up a temporary altar and do smaller spell
work. Maybe there are parts of your garden that are more secluded
and you could perform your magick there.
If you don’t have a garden, you can still do outside magick; it may just
take a little more effort and organisation. First, there are always parks
and areas of greenery in every city. Doing small-scale spell work in
these places is possible. Pack up what you need in a compact wooden
box or matchboxes and find a quiet place to settle down and
concentrate. If you have a balcony, this can be a huge benefit; outside
spell work will be just as effective and you can work with the moon. If
you’re really struggling and, like me, you feel that you need privacy to
be able to get the best out of your rituals and spell work, particularly
for bigger spells that require lots of space or a connection with the
moon, it might be worth travelling for these. There are often little-used
and hidden places, even in cities; ask around and do some research.
Towns and cities often have woods and fields, lakes and quiet areas
on their outskirts, maybe just a bus-or train-ride away. It may take a bit
of searching but you might just find the perfect place to do all of your
outside magick. Please also remember to ask permission–never
trespass. Similarly, always make sure that someone knows where you
are going–do not put yourself in danger by going out into remote areas
alone.
Some people may not want to work outside and prefer to work in the
comfort of their own home and that’s okay too! Everybody’s magick is
different; we all work in different ways and some of us simply prefer
inside magick and have found that’s how we work best! Many Wiccans
may not require the elements of what the outside gives us.
MAKING TIME FOR YOUR FAITHMAKING TIME FOR YOUR FAITH
If you go to university, study or have a full-time job that requires travel or
takes up a lot of your time, it can sometimes be difficult to prioritise your
Wicca journey. But this does not mean it is impossible. If you are just
starting out in Wicca, try to schedule time into every day; even if it’s just
half an hour to write in your Book of Shadows or to practise reading your
tarots or research a new subject. There’s no need to rush, you will be
working on this for the rest of your life and you will have more time for it
as you continue on your journey. There’s no need to pressure yourself;
it’s not a chore and should be fun!
If you have been doing Wicca for a while and suddenly have a change
in location–maybe you have begun university, moved home or started a
new job–do the same: schedule a time for your practices or even use it to
wind down in the evenings before you sleep. This can be a super
effective way to enjoy Wicca and make the learning element less chore-
like–just chill and look forward to it in the evenings. Remember that
sometimes you may be so busy that you barely have time to sleep, let
alone practise Wicca, so don’t punish yourself. Remember that you live
and breathe your beliefs, if you miss a full moon or forget a ritual that you
had planned, don’t worry about it, it will come round again soon!
If you have a job that takes up a lot of your time, you can take magick
with you, whether it be a book to read in your lunchtime, a form of
divination you can do on the train, crystals to use for meditation or even a
semi-permanent altar, as small as a match box with a few herbs, a
candle and a few other mini items! Lunchtimes are always great for spell
work. Find a quiet spot where you can concentrate; this may take some
getting used to but it will become more natural the more that you practise.
If you share a house with friends or flatmates who take up a lot of your
time and personal space, it may be awkward explaining that you need
quiet time to concentrate on something that they may not understand.
You could lie and say that you need privacy for a phone call or to practise
meditation but it’s often better to be honest with people and explain what
you are actually doing. That way they won’t think that you just don’t want
them around. Again, it’s easier said than done, but if you treat your faith
as a completely normal thing to you and don’t make a big deal out of it,
it’s usually received in the same way.
RESTRICTIONS BY TENANCY OR HOUSEHOLD RULESRESTRICTIONS BY TENANCY OR HOUSEHOLD RULES
If your tenancy agreement doesn’t allow lit candles, this can be incredibly
difficult as many spells require them. Even casting circles or divination
can sometimes benefit from the use of candles. You need to remember
that Wicca and magick are all about working with what you’ve got. It’s
about using what is at hand and about your intent, not about items that
you have purchased. For example, if you feel that you need items to
represent fire, incense can often be substituted, as can herbs that you
can burn and some crystals. If you are not allowed to burn anything
indoors, you can always just use visualisation and concentration: all you
really need for a spell is yourself!
Also, living in the city, it is unlikely that you will be allowed to or have
space to have bonfires for celebrations. A wood burner or a fireplace that
you are permitted to use is a good substitute. These can both be used in
spells that incorporate burning and for festivities on the Sabbats.
BENEFITS OF BEING A CITY WICCAN
Even though it can be amazing to practise Wicca in the countryside,
there are still some benefits to being a Wiccan in the city.
One of the positive things about living in the city is shops! Chances are
you are in a great place for crystal, herbology and pagan shops and
can benefit from the expertise and enthusiasm of the shop owners.
You will almost certainly also have easy access to markets and shops
selling the extras that you may need, such as candles, symbolic
ornaments and also fabulous specialist and second-hand bookshops.
There are tons of individual shops you can enjoy discovering and
exploring to help you with elements of your journey, and you shouldn’t
have to go far to find them.
There is no need to feel isolated–cities are also good places to meet
other Wiccans. Living in the middle of nowhere can be amazing for
peace and quiet, but if you are just starting out in Wicca or want some
company from other likeminded people, busy cities are the best places
to find this. Larger towns and cities often have an eclectic population
with a diverse range of faiths, cultures and viewpoints. I found Wiccanfriends by getting to know the people who work in a local pagan shop;
they also told me about pagan festivals and gatherings in the area.
Another good idea is to join Wiccan forums; they are an easy way to
connect with local people with similar interests and beliefs.
There are more events in larger towns and cities that may involve
pagans, Wiccans and witchcraft, such as Pagan Pride and spiritual
festivals which are fantastic places to meet people and to buy items for
use in your magickal workings. These events might also provide
opportunities to learn more about your path.
Sometimes particular areas of cities have a creative buzz and an
intense and positive energy which can help your creativity and
motivation. This can help your magickal practices and also sometimes
lift your general mood!
You are less likely to need a car, with more readily available public
transport and paths everywhere. This is not only good for the natural
environment, but also can help you connect with your surroundings.
Cities are also good places to get some exercise and feel in tune with
your body. There are loads of opportunities for walking and for finding
a relaxing and strengthening yoga or pilates class. These activities are
good for your mental health, your body and your spiritual connection.
You also might be inspired to go out and find things that you usually
wouldn’t look for and interact with new elements and with different
people that are outside of your comfort zone.
Many cities have fabulous botanical gardens that promote
conservation and encourage education on many interesting and
unusual plants. Visit your local one when it is not too busy and enjoy
the surroundings. Many also sell rare plants.
No matter where you are, magick is all around you and within you.
Don’t let the tall concrete buildings make you feel less magickal, look
for the greenery, the life and the positive energies; they might be a
little harder to find, but they are always there.26.
Small Spaces
Thinking about the space that you might have is relevant to a practising
Wiccan, for instance when it comes to casting circles, performing rituals
and a place for your altar, etc. In reality, we all have different-sized
homes, rooms, outdoor spaces and many limitations in the areas in which
we can work effectively. Spaces to live and practise in can be temporary
or more permanent and some lifestyles necessitate constant travel. Also,
Wiccans can start their journey at any age, with some maybe sharing a
room with a sibling or possibly away from home for chunks of time at
university or living with housemates without much privacy. Some
Wiccans could have children and have the risk of their tools being
damaged or constantly moved. Any of these limitations could feel like
they affect your practices, but they don’t have to. Wicca is about working
with what you’ve got, not about how big your house or garden is, your
age, background or your income; if you have the right intent, a tiny room
is enough. Here are some ideas for working with the space that you
have.
First, have a good clear-out of any clutter, even smaller rooms feel
more spacious and calm after you have got rid of any items that have
no significance to your current life, or that you no longer have a use
for.
Downsizing your tools is perfectly acceptable–having fewer candles,
maybe just two to represent the god and the goddess, a pentagram
and four other items to represent the elements can be enough. You
don’t need an expansive array of tools for an effective altar. Try
placing your altar in a drawer, on a small wooden shelf or box; this
takes up less room and gives you privacy too. You also don’t need to
store large amounts of herbs and other ingredients for spells. You canpurchase small amounts when and where you need them. Any leftover
ingredients can be stored in used, cleaned medicine bottles, sealed
cups or containers that can be kept out of sight. Also, it’s always worth
looking into spells that don’t require herbs. There are so many different
raw materials and tools that you can use for magick, not all of it is
greenery or from the natural world. Look for spells that maybe require
smaller objects or tiny amounts of herbs; it may take you in a different
direction and give you the experience of other kinds of magick.
If you share a room with someone, a drawer or box that can be put
away under the bed, for your belongings, altar and other personal
items, is a good start. Setting up a temporary, portable altar could be
the most convenient way to go. Locks may also be necessary for
journals, books and boxes, as privacy will probably be important to you
and some people naturally may let curiosity get the better of them. As
for your actual space for casting spells, you don’t need a huge area,
just somewhere that’s big enough to sit comfortably. You can sit and
cast your circle with the elements close to you and simply draw the
circle out at arm’s length. Also, it’s not always necessary to physically
mark your circle out–you can simply cast your circle in your mind. As
for the best times for your workings, either wait for a time when the
other person you share a room with is not around or is in a different
room for a long period, which might create more space and enable you
to concentrate! There might be a different room in your house that is
available for you to use; you can keep a sacred space in a room other
than your own room. If you have no other option–for instance, if you
are in shared accommodation at university and privacy and space are
limited–you can always go outside to practise in parks and public
spaces (see above). Natural surroundings can have an incredibly
positive affect on your spells and rituals.
It is also worth talking to siblings or housemates that you share a room
with. If you explain and show them what you are doing and they see
first-hand the positive benefits of your practices, they might be more
tolerant and less likely to interfere or disturb you and your tools.
Being a practising Wiccan with children and pets can be tricky because
obviously many parents do not like to restrict their children fromexploring, even around objects that may be precious to them. In this
case, a temporary altar in a portable container or wrapped in a cloth
could be preferable. It can be removed to a high or secure place when
not in use. Oils and incense also can be toxic to pets and children, so
always ensure that they are burned in a room where you can open a
window after use to let the smoke blow away and keep them in a
locked or high cupboard otherwise. Potentially dangerous items such
as your athame, boline, food offerings and candles for burning at your
altar must always be used with care and safely store afterwards.
As with everything, be respectful, kind and show understanding to those
around you and usually all that will be reciprocated.27.
Finding a Coven
A coven is a unified group of witches, Wiccans or pagans which teaches
and follows a specific path. The teachings are often passed down
through generations. This knowledge includes whichever traditions are
relevant to that coven. They often also come together for rituals, spell
work and to celebrate the Sabbats and Esbats. Covens may focus on the
teachings of traditional British Wicca and other established paths, but in
the modern world there are many different types of covens, following a
range of paths, such as Faery Wicca, Green Wicca and even Draconic
Wicca! Most members usually practise and learn by themselves as well,
but this would usually be along similar lines to the teachings that their
chosen coven supports.
In a few covens, all the members live together, but this is much more
rare in the modern world of Wicca. You usually have to be invited to join
covens and they’re not always easy to find unless you know someone
who is already a member. Typically, you would be invited to join a coven,
accepted and then initiated. After that, there may be strict rules that you
will be expected to follow. There may also be one shared Book of
Shadows, or Grimoire, for all. Covens sometimes operate with a High
Priest and Priestess who lead, and a system of levels of initiation–you
probably need to be comfortable being part of a fairly strict hierarchical
system if you join this type of group. There are also many covens now
that are willing to allow people to join if they have the desire to learn their
teachings. They may still have High Priests and Priestesses that look
after the entire coven and you may still meet up for celebrations, etc.
There are also covens that function partly or entirely online, such is the
modern world!IS A COVEN RIGHT FOR YOU?
Some people begin Wicca really wanting to join a coven; this may be the
right path for you because you like to work and learn within a group and it
can benefit your practice when you are surrounded by people with
experience and knowledge. As most covens have been practising for
several generations, the teachings can be incredibly insightful. Many
covens are extremely welcoming, inclusive and encouraging. You also
can build a close bond with your coven members and enjoy the sense of
community within the group, and you can also build amazing friendships
with like-minded people.
Some Wiccans also believe that performing rituals alongside other
people can help you attain a greater connection with the divine. There
are covens for pretty much any path that you may be interested in but it’s
not always easy to be initiated, and every coven has different
requirements for initiation.
Of course, you don’t have to be in a coven; it’s completely your choice
and it doesn’t make you a better or a lesser Wiccan. I have met tons of
Wiccans who have been solitary their whole lives and who are incredibly
powerful and insightful. I’ve also met Wiccans from covens that are just
as intuitive and happy in their choices.
There is also something called a ‘circle’–which is like a coven, but is a
group of Wiccans that join together occasionally to perform ritual and
spell work, celebrate the Sabbats together and share their teachings too.
That’s more of a casual arrangement.
Unfortunately, there are covens that believe their way is the only
correct way, but that’s not true. Saying that defeats the point of what
Wicca is all about: Wicca has no right way of doing things. I have also
occasionally heard of egotistical and petty clashes within covens–and if
you come across this, try to steer clear of such behaviour, if you can.
If you are able to find a coven that suits your beliefs and in which you
feel comfortable and empowered and you agree with their rules and
ethics, then it may certainly be the right path for you. Even though I love
being a solitary Wiccan, if I found a coven that felt just right for me, I
would definitely take up the opportunity to join.WAYS TO FIND A COVEN
Finding a coven is probably not as hard as you think. It may just be a
case of getting to know other Wiccans who practise in this way. Don’t be
shocked if they don’t tell you any details about their practices, because
some covens are sworn to secrecy. You might be able to find people who
used to be involved in a coven or perhaps you can research via online
groups, forums and apps. If you make yourself known in these
communities and prove yourself to be an active, committed Wiccan, they
may even seek you out! You can always try befriending the Wiccans you
know in your area who may have hinted that they are in a coven and find
out more about their group in order to see if it suits your beliefs. You can
also go to festivals, such as Pagan Pride and spiritual festivals, where
there are opportunities to speak directly to members of covens and
discover more about them.
ONLINE COVENS
You can find online covens through Wiccan groups, Facebook forums
and even apps. There are lots of websites that give you contact numbers,
emails and details for covens which you might be interested in joining.
Pagan councils can also help you search. If a particular coven does not
accept you, do not be discouraged or disappointed; this does not mean
that your practices are deficient in any way. You may just not be quite
right for their particular group in some aspects of your practice or you
may need to complete their requirements before joining, which may just
take a little more work!Last Few Words
Over the last few years my journey into Wicca has been life-changing. It
has definitely helped me develop and grow as a person, helped me to
enjoy life more and I truly believe that I wouldn’t have been able to face
some of the challenges that life has thrown at me without it. I’ve learned a
greater level of respect for the earth and for the others sharing it with me.
I’ve also found that my gradual developments in practising witchcraft–and
incorporating this into how I live–have brought a whole other level of
power to my existence.
Some of the most incredible people I have met over the last few years
have been Wiccans and pagans, who have helped me learn and
challenge myself within my journey and given me the strength to grow
and learn from others, both within the faith and outside, who might not be
as kind or understanding. The actual practice of Wicca has been going
on quietly for centuries, flourishing and becoming more widely known
since about the 1950s; now, it continually evolves to fit into the twenty-
first-century world. We have as a community overcome barriers of how
Wiccans, witches and pagans are seen, and have flourished and used
our faiths and practices to make our lives the way we want them to be.
As Wicca is taken into the modern world, our growth will continue and our
practices will evolve. However, the foundation of Wicca will always be as
pure and as gentle as it was at its beginnings. Even in this modern world,
our beliefs will always be to follow the sun, worship the moon, talk to the
trees, listen to the plants, swim in the water, light the fires and breathe in
the air, for as long as our earth is still spinning.
Blessed be all the Wiccans, witches, pagans and others xWant even more Harmony Nice? You don’t have to wait.
Tap here to find your new favorite book.
Get sneak peeks, book recommendations, and news about your
favorite authors.Resources
BOOKS
Wicca by Scott Cunningham Living Wicca by Scott Cunningham Earth
Power by Scott Cunningham The Modern Guide to Witchcraft by Skye
Alexander
ONLINE
www.thehoodwitch.com–this is a fantastic blog full of posts on everything
from fashion to music, and the Sabbats to Tarot.
www.wicca-spirituality.com–another wonderful resource for articles on all
things relating to Wicca.
www.wiccadaily.com–an online channel for all your Wiccan news,
articles, photos, rituals and spell guides.
www.witchfest.net–the largest organiser of witchcraft festivals in the
world, this is a great resource for finding a Wicca-based event near you.
YOUTUBERS
Anaïs Alexandre
BehatiLife
Eadig
Laura Daligan
The White Witch ParlourINSTAGRAMMERS
@behatilife
@downtostars
@thehoodwitch
@wiccamovement
@witchradio
#wiccapath
SHOPS
Every Witch Way
www.everywitchway.co.uk The Goddess & The Green Man
www.goddessandgreenman.co.uk 17 High Street, Glastonbury, Somerset
BA6 9DP
The Hoodwitch
www.thehoodwitch.com
Innanas Festival
www.facebook.com/inannamagicNORWICH
2 St Andrew’s Hill, Norwich NR2 1AD
KrystalRealm
www.etsy.com/shop/KrystalRealm Wicca Daily
www.wiccadaily.com
EVENTS
The Norwich Mind Body Spirit Festival–this is a great way to meet
other Wiccans and like-minded people. There are plenty of exhibitors all
of whom are there to help you with finding spiritual enlightenment. The
festival takes place every June in Norwich.
Pagan Pride UK–celebrating and raising awareness of modern
Paganism, this non-profit organisation organises an amazing annual
festival in central Nottingham on the first Sunday of August.The Stonehenge Solstice Festival–a music festival like no other!
Specially located in the Salisbury Plain, this is the perfect event making
friends and enjoying its uniquely relaxing and magical atmosphere. It
takes place annually, during the Summer Solstice.nazov knihy ==================A. E. Waite - The Book of Ceremonial Magic (1911).pdf
Introduction
ture, in fine, is full as to that' which it understands in respect of
the life, but this is the Divine Life ; it is grace which fills the
heart ; it is the Holy Spirit of God which makes holy the spirit
of man ; it is life in God. There is no doubt that in its formula-
tion it was presented to the mind of Christian Mysticism as the
life which was hidden with Christ in God, and this ineffable
concealment was equivalent to the presentation in open teach-
iinngg of that mystery of emblematic death which lies behind all
the pageants of initiation. This was the state, and the dogma
from which the state depended is defined by that Johannine-
Epistle which affirms : (i) That God hath given- to us eternal
life ; (2) That this life is His Son ; (3) That whosoever hath
the Son hath life ; (4) That whosoever is without the Son is
without life also. These points follow naturally enough from
the testimony of the Fourth Gospel : (i) I n the person of the
Divine Voice, saying--I am the Way, the Truth and the Life
I am the Resurrection and the Life : I am the Bread of
Life ; (2) In the person of the witness, saying In Him was
life and the life was the light of men .
There is'no doubt, in the second place, that the Divine Voice-
was incarnate for Christian Mysticism in Jesus of Nazareth, and
we must cast out from us the images of those false witnesses
jvho from time to time have pretended that the masters of the
hidden life in the Christian centuries had become far too en-
lightened spiritually to tolerate the external cortex of their
faith and creed, This point is of much greater importance than
it may appear in the present connection, for I am not doing less
than establish a canon of criticism . I will take two typical
examples, one of which is moderately early and the other
sufficiently late to serve as a distinction in time. The anony-
mous Cloud of Unknowing belongs, I believe, to the early part
of the fifteenth century, and it is to be classed among the most
signal presentations of the conditions and mode of the Union
which I have met with in Christian literature. It offers an
xviINCLUDING THE °RITES AND MYSTERIES OF
GOETIC THEURGY, SORCERY AND
INFERNAL NECROMANCY
'"hi demons malls virtute divinorum nominuat aduratos,
advocare sokwt,,lrt hsc est illa Necromantie'.rpecies qua
dicitur male, *in Theurgiam, qua quasi bona Angelic,,
divinoque numl* rrgitur. tut nonnulr putant) cum sepissime
tamen sub Dei, `et Angelorum nominibDs malls Demonoum
,jllurionibus peragitur."-ROBERT FLUDD.
,-
LONDON
WILLIAM RIDER & SON, LTD.
i64 ALDERSGATE STREET, E.C.
zgi,JI.4r1 on the %ecret EGrobftfon
BY ARTHUR EDWARD WAITE
THE HIDDEN CHURCH OF THE HOLY GRAAL : its
Legends and Symbolism, considered in their affinity with
certain Mysteries of Initiation and other Traces of a Secret
Tradition in Christian Times. Demy vo, pp. xix., 714-
12s. 6d.
STUDIES IN MYSTICISM` AND CERTAIN ASPECTS
OF TIE SECRET TRADITION .IN C $TIAN
TIMES. Demy 8vo, pp. xii., 348. ros. 6d
THE DOCTRINE #AND LITERATURE OF 1THE
s KABALAH. Demy 8vo, PP- xx., 508, 7s. 6d.
THE SECRET TRADITION IN FREEMASONRY a;-nadn
'Analysis of the Inter-Relation between the Craft and the
High Grades, in respect of their Term of Research, as it is
expressed by the way of Symbolism. [Immediately.
THE REAL HISTORY OF THE ROSICRUCIANS,
founded on their own Manifestoes and on Facts and Docu-
-ments collected from the Writings of Initiated Brethren.
Crown 8vo, pp. viii., 446. 7s. 6d.H E art which is called Goetic, being that of incanta-
T
tion, of sorcery, fascination and of the illusions and
impostures connected therewith, has come somewhat
arbitrarily to signify, the last issue in diabolism of the more
catholic and general art which is termed Practical Magic. .
The latter designation implies that there is a Magic on the
theoretical side, or, as it may be, a philosophy of the subject,
and this again is of two kinds : in modern days it has em-
bodied various attempts to provide an explanation, a working
hypothesis, for alleged phenomena of the past ; of old it came
forward with the accent of authority and carrying the warrants
of a peculiar and secret knowledge ; it taught rather than
explained. Behind this, in virtue of a specific assumption,
there stood the source of such authority, the school or schools
that issued, so to speak, the certificates of title which the
records of the expounding master are supposed to shew that
he possessed. Herein.resided presumably that Higher Magic
which justified the original meaning of the term Magic ; this
was the science of wisdom, and of that wisdom which was the
issue of experience and knowledge particular to sacred sanc-
tuaries in the years of the Magi. In this manner a remote and
abstract magnificence, has been allocated 'to the practical work
but ibetween this aspect as we know it otherwise ;.nd that dream
as it has been dilated in the forms of its expression there is
the kind of relation which subsists between renown and its
non-fulfilment. If Magic in its proper and original. meaning
viiPreface
be synonymous with wisdom ; if that wisdom, by virtue of this
assumption which I have mentioned, were something 'incon= -
ceivably great, it is of certitude that it had no causal con-
nection with the congeries of arts and processes which are
understood by Practical Magic. That there was, as there
still is, a science of the old sanctuaries, I am certain tas a
mystic ; that this science issued in that experience which
imparts wisdom I am also certain ; but it did not correspond
to any of the arts and processes to which I refer here, nor to
anything which can be received by the mind as the result
of their exaltation. ' The consideration of a possibility thus
already condemned is therefore ruled out of the inquiry which
I have attempted in the present work. I have also ruled
out, as' it will be seen, the distinctions which have subsisted
between the good and evil side of the arts and processes, not
that it does not exist on the bare surface, but because the
two aspects dissolve into one another and belong one to
another in the root that is common to both . The actual
question before us is after what manner, if any, magical pro-
cedure draws anything from secret tradition in the past, and so
enters into the general subject of such tradition, -whether in
Christian or anterior times. It would and could only 'be of
tradition on its worthless side, and it will not exalt a subject
which the records of centuries have shewn to be incapable of
being raised ; it will, however, let us know where we are.
On the face of the question a tradition of all kinds of rubbish
is very likely to have been handed down from antiquity, andd in
respect of occultism, the last drift and scattermeal has passed
into the Grimoires, Keys of Solomon and other rituals innumer-
able by which Art Magic has passed into written record. .
As this book represents, under a new title and with many
additions, a work which was issued originally in 1898, I have
viii_ .._. ~~PLATE I
EDWARD KELLEY, A MAGICIAN
In the act of invoking the sprit of a deceased personPreface
accepted the opportunity- to indicate its position in respect
of far more important works embodying my construction of the
Secret Tradition in Christian Times. I have secured this object
-which after all is clear and simple-not by a regrettable come
parison of what I have written there with that which appears
in the present place, but by skewing in a brief introduction
the proper sense in which phenomenal occultism and all its
arts indifferently connect with the tradition of the mystics
they are the path of illusion by which the psychic nature of
man enters that other path which goes down into the abyss .
The` book in its present revision remains of necessity a pre-
sentation of old texts by the way of digest I have added
some new sections that in this department it may be rendered
more representative, and if a touch of fantasy, which is not
wholly apart from seriousness, will be pardoned here at the
inception, the work itself is now an appendix to the introductory
thesis---the textual, historical and other evidence by which it
is supported.
In the year 1889 an expositor of the more arid and un-
profitable side of Kabalistic doctrine edited in English a text of
Ceremonial Magic, entitled Clavicula Salomonis, or, the Key of
Solomon the King. In an introduction prefixed to the work he
stated that he saw no-reason to doubt, and therefore presumably
accepted, the tradition of its authorship,' which in respect of
the critical sense may be taken to summarise his qualifications
for a mentor stultorum., It should be added, as an additional
light, that he undertook his translation more especially for the
use of occult students, that is to say, for those persons who
believe in the efficacy of magical rites and may, as an illustra-
tion of their faith, desire to put them in practice. With this
z The work as it now stands quotes Ezekiel, Daniel, the fourth Gospel, and mentions
SS. Peter and. Paul. - Many of these anachronisms are to be found in the pentacles accotn-,
panying the text.
ixPreface
exception, the large body of literature which treats of Theurgic
Ceremonial in its various branches has remained inaccessible,
to the generality of readers, in rare printed books and rarer
manuscripts, in both cases mostly in foreign languages. There
is probably a considerable class outside occult students to whom a
systematic account of magical procedure may be not unwelcome,
perhaps mainly as a curiosity of old-world credulity, but also as
a contribution of some value to certain side issues of historical
research ; these, however, an edition for occult students would
deter rather than attract. In the present work several interests
have been as far as possible considered. The subject is
approached from the bibliographical and critical standpoints,
and all sources of information which many years of inquiry
have made known to the writer have been consulted to render
it complete. At the same time, seeing that there is a section
of readers who will not disdain to be classed as- professed occult-
ists, whatever my view of their dedications,, Lam dealing with
texts over which their interest may be held to exercise a certain
primary jurisdiction, and I have therefore studied their require-
ments in two important respects, which will not, as I believe,
be a source of offence to merely historical students . They
have been studied, firstly, by the observance of strict technical
exactitude ; the ceremonial produced in this book is absolutely
faithful to the originals, and removes all necessity of having
recourse to the originals before determining any doubtful point
of magical procedure in the past. For convenience of reference
-if I may venture to make the modest bid for recognition on
.the part of such a circle-it is indeed superior to the originals,
because, it has been put systematically, whereas they . often
exceed understanding owing to the errors of transcribers, the
misreadings of printers, the loose methods of early translators,
and seemingly, it must be added, the confused minds - of the
x
0Preface
first compilers, `"Solomon " himself not excepted. The in-
numerable offices of vain observance which constitute Cere-
monial Magic, as. it is presented in books, will therefore be
found substantially intact by those who concern themselves
with such observance.
The second respect in which the interests of the occult
student have been considered is, however, of much more import-
ance, though he may not be as ready to admit the suggestion,
having regard to all that it implies . Robert Turner, the English
translator of the Magical Elements, written, or-more correctly
-supposed to be written, by the unfortunate Peter of Abano,
describes that treatise as an introduction to " magical vanity," a
term which was possibly used in a symbolical or exotic manner,
to intimate that most things which concern the phenomenal world
are indifferently trivial. Now, the more inward purpose of the
present investigation is to place within reach of those persons
who are inclinedtosuch a subject the fullest evidence of the futility
of Ceremonial Magic as it is found in books, and the fantastic
nature of the distinction between White and Black Magic-so
far also as the literature of either is concerned. As to the things
which are implied within and may lie behind the literature, they
are another consideration, about which I will say only at the
moment that, judged', by the fruits which they have produced,
they are not incomparable to the second- death beyond the
gates of perdition. It would be unbecoming in a writer of my
known dedications to deny that there is a Magic which is behind
Magic, or that even the occult sanctuaries possess their secrets
and mysteries ; of these the written ceremonial is held by their
self-imputed exponents to be either a debased and scandalous
travesty, a trivial and misconstrued application, or, in respect of
diluted views, it may be alternatively "as moonlight .unto sun-
light and as water unto wine." The exponents withhold their
xiPreface
warrants ; but in the presence or absence of these, it may be as
well to say at the beginning that if the secrets and mysteries
belong to the powers and wonders of the psychic side, and not
to the graces of the spirit, then God is not present in those
sanctuaries. Let,a mystic assure the occult student that as he,
or any one, is dealing herein simply with nauseating follies of
the inside world of distraction, so he would be concerned in the
.alleged schools behind them-supposing that he had the right
of entrance-with the same follies carried to the tie plus ultra
degree. The texts, for this reason,. may be more innocent
because they are more ridiculous and have the advantage-for
the most part-of being impossible to follow. The statement
just made will explain why it is permissible to bring forth from
the obscurity of centuries a variety of processes which would
be abominable if it could be supposed that they were to be
seriously understood. The criticism applies to all the extant
Rituals, whatever their pretended claims, whatever their surface
distinction. Some are more absurd than others, some are per-
haps more iniquitous, but they are all tainted, with Black Magic
in the same way that every idle word is tainted with the nature
of sin. The distinction between White and Black Magic is the
distinction between the idle and the evil word.
It would, naturally, be unsafe to Affirm that all persons
making use of the ceremonies in the Rituals up to the point of
possibility would fail to obtain results. Perhaps in the majority
of cases most of such experiments made in the past were attended
with results of a kind. . To enter the path of hallucination is
likely to insure hallucination, and in the presence of hypnotic,
clairvoyant and a thousand kindred facts it would be absurd to
suppose that the seering processes of Ancient Magic-which
are many-did not produce seership, or that the auto-hypnotic
state which much magical ritual would obviously tend to occa-
xii
rPr-dace
sion in predisposed persons did not frequently induce it, and
not always only in the predisposed. To this extent some
of the processes are practical, and to this extent they are
dangerous.
For convenience of treatment the present work,is divided
into two parts. The first contains an analytical and critical
account of the chief magical rituals known to the writer ; the
second forms a complete Grimoire of Black Magic. It must
be remembered that these are the operations which gave arms
to the Inquisitors of the past, and justified Civil Tribunals
in the opinion of their century for the sanguinary edicts pro-
nounced against witch, warlock and magician. It is, in truth,
a very strange and not reassuring page in the history of
human aberration ; nor has it been a pleasing exercise which
has thus sought to make it plain, once and for all.
i
A SERPENT BEFORE THE CURSE.
From the" Speculum Salvationis."
XiiiINTRODUCTION
HE mystic tradition in Christian Times is preserved, apart
T from all questions and traces of Instituted Mysteries,
in the literature of Christian Mystical Theology ; it is
a large and exceedingly scattered literature ; some of its most
important texts are available in no modern language ; they
stand very seriously in need of codification, and-if I may be
so frank-even of re-expression. But if, for other reasons;
they ai1e in their entirety a study which must be left to the
expert, there is no person now living in Europe who has not
close at his hands the specific, simple, isolated texts-much too
numerous to name-which are sufficient to give some general
idea of the scope and aims of the tradition. If I were asked to
define the literature shortly and comprehensively as a whole, I
should call it the texts of the way, the truth and the life in
respect of the mystic term. It is not only full but exhaustive
way-which
as to the is that of the inward world, recollection,
meditation, contemplation, the renunciation of all that is lower
in the quest of all that is higher--but perhaps the most catholic
word of all would be centralisation. It is very full also on the'
fundamental truth, out of which it arises, that a way ;does exist
and that the way is open. The truth is formulated in all
I
simplicity by the Epistle to the Hebrews-that God is and that
He recompenses those who seek Him out. I have cited this
testimony on several occasions in the same connection, and I do
so here and now without a word of apology and with no sense
of repetition, since it can never be a matter of redundancy to
I
remember after what manner the Divine ways are justified to
humanity, when humanity is seeking the Divine. The litera-
xvIntroduction
ture, in fine, is full as to that which it understands in respect of
the life, but this is the Divine Life ; it is grace which fills the
heart ; it is the Holy Spirit of God which makes holy the spirit
of man ; it is life in God. There is no doubt that in its formula-
tion it was presented to the mind of Christian Mysticism as the
life which was hidden with Christ in God, and this ineffable
concealment was equivalent to the presentation in open teach-
ing of that mystery of emblematic death which lies behind all
the pageants of initiation. This was the state, and the dogma
from which the state depended is defined by that Johannine
Epistle which affirms : (i) That God hath given, to us eternal
life ; (2) That this life is His Son ; (3) That_ whosoever hath
the- Son hath life ; (4) That whosoever is without the Son is
without life also. These points follow naturally enough from
the testimony of the Fourth Gospel : (i) I n the person of the
Divine Voice, saying-I am the Way, the Truth and the Life :
I am the Resurrection and the Life : I am the Bread of
Life ; (2) In the person of the witness, saying : In Him was
life and the life was the light of men .
There is-no doubt, in the second place, that the Divine Voice
was incarnate for Christian Mysticism in Jesus of Nazareth, and
we must cast out from us the images of those false witnesses
yvho from time to time have pretended that the masters of the
hidden life in the Christian centuries had become far too en-
lightened spiritually to tolerate the external cortex of their
faith and creed. This point is of much greater importance than
it may appear in the present connection, for I am not doing less
than establish a canon of criticism . I will take two typical
examples, one of which is moderately early and the other
sufficiently late to serve as a distinction in time. The anony-
mous Cloud of Unknowing belongs, I believe, to the early part
of the fifteenth century, and it is to be classed among the most
signal presentations of the conditions and mode of the Union
which I have met with in Christian literature. It offers an
xviIntroduction.
fills the heart of the true mystic. r am not intending to
suggest that the Magus as such is of necessity at issue with
the- decalogue, or that he is under judgment by this . sole
standard, whether for vengeance or reward. As the position
is capable of dogmatic statement, and as. such is without any
subjection to vicissitude, I will express it in dogma as follows
Whosoever goes inward to find anything but the Divine in
his centre is working on the side of his own loss. As there
is the height of Kether in Kabalism, so there is the abyss
which is below Malkuth, and those who are seeking to exer-
cise the powers of the soul apart from its graces are treading
the downward path. The operation of grace is so utterly
catholic, and there =is correspondingly so much of the Divine
prevention operating everywhere, that in most instances the
experiments come to little and the frittering does not continue
from the mere weariness of its business ; but the quest of
miraculous -power-and I use an unscientific phrase of - set
purpose, because I am dealing now with the, most inexact of
all subjects-is that which is usually comprehended by the
term occult science, and the occult sciences, speaking gene-
', rally, are the sciences of the abyss. I except astrology, which"
-only through the accident of many associations-has been
taken by force into the category : it is not an occult science,
and notwithstanding a few negligible claims on the part of a
few sanctuaries, it has no secret mode of working whatsoever .
It is the calculus of probabilities on the basisof experience in re
spect of empirical things. Putting it aside, on the-fringe of the
whole circle there are further a few score of follies which one
would not term the grades of preparation for the abyss" unless
there were a solid reason for being preternaturally serious . I
have characterised these sufficiently in the text, and here 1
will'say only that all paths offolly lead to the Houses of Sin.
There remains the question of Magic. As to this, I
am aware that . the professors, who are many, and the
xxiiiIntroduction
amateurs, who are many more, may, be disposed to intervene
at this point and call attention to the ancient and honourable
distinction between White and Black Magic. But with this
also I have dealt so fully in the text that I question whether
the entire work is not an illustration of my thesis that,
except in a very slight, verbal and fluidic sense, no such
distinction exists-I mean to say that it is unrooted in the
subsoil . of the subject. Lest I should appear, however, un-
critical over things of sufficient importance to be regarded in
their several phases, it is necessary to make two further dis-
tinctions on my own part. One of the secret sciences is of
course Alchemy, and so far as this was the mode, mystery, or
art of transmuting= metals, of healing material human disease,
of prolonging human life by certain physical methods-to this
extent it is, as it was always, a matter of learned research ; and
though I should not say that the students of the old literature
are in the least likely to discover the secrets from the books,
there is such an excusable and pleasant air about the quest
and its enthusiasm, that it is rather a consolation to know that
it is of more danger to the purse than, it will ever be to the
soul of ntan.
Alchemy has, however, another and if possible a more
secret side, from which it enters the science of the soul. I
distinguish it at once and entirely from occultism and all its
ways ; it is approximately -and almost literally identical with
that postern within the first entrance of the Closed Palace
which I have already mentioned. The postern, however,
stands for several manners of research which are not in com-
petition with and are without prejudice to each other.
We shall come presently to a third distinction which is much
nearer to our hands and feet than are the two others, and will
call for some courage on my part in consequence. I will leave
it for this reason to such spur of necessity as may arise at the
end-to which indeed it belongs otherwise.
xxivexperiment egration which seems to me `more pract al~
because it more express'' than the great intimations` of
Dionysius. The integration is grounded on the identityoff our
essential nature with the Divine Nature and our eternal being
therein "That which thou art thou hast from, Him, and He it
is" and again "Yet hath thy being been ever in Him,
without all beginning, from all beginning, from all eternity,
and ever shall be, without- end, as Himself is. There is
;sufficient kinship' on the surface of these statements for the
casually literate and not too careful reader to speak of themas
asimple presentation of the pantheistic doctrine of identity ; but
they are saved herefrom by the important qualification that-
this state of eternal Divine indwelling notwithstanding-man
had "a beginning in the substantial creation, the which was
sometime nothing." This beginning signifies the coming forth
of man's spirit into the state of self-knowing in separateness, or
some more withdrawn condition to which we cannot approxi-
mate in language--I mean in language that will offer a satis-
factory consideration to the higher part of our understanding. ,
If it is conceivable that there is a possible state ofdistinction
in Divine Consciousness by which the true self of our spirit
became self-knowing, but not in separateness, then it is this
state which is called in The Cloud of Unknowing "a beginning
in the, substantial creation . It will be seen that I set aside
implicitly the suggestion that the passage is a simple reference
to the soup-in physical birth. I do not think that the mystic
whose chief flowers are of all things exotic would offer a dis-
tinction like this asaqualification of the soul's eternity by integra-
ti,on in the Godhead, or, more correctly, by substantial' unity.
That which I take, therefore, to have been present to the writer's
mind was the implicit pre-existence of all-souls in the Divine
Being for ever, and secondly their explication-as if the living
thought became the living word ; but there are no' commety
surate analogies.' In this manner there arose "the substantial
xvii- - bIntroduction
creation, the which was sometime nothing," and we know ofall
that has followed in the past and continued ages of our separate-
ness. This state is our sickness, and the way of return is our
healing. That return, according to The Cloud and its con-
nections and identities in the great literature, is "the high wisdom
of the Godhead . . . descending into man's soul . . . and uniting it
~to God Himself." The path is a path of undoing, though it is
at this point that so many mystics stand in fear of the- irre-
sistible consequences which follow from their own teachings : it
is the returning of the substantial creation into nothing ; it is
an entrance into the darkness ; an act of unknowing wherein-the
soul is wholly stripped and. unclothed of all sensible realisation
of itself, that it may be reclothed in the realisation of God.
It may well seem that in this House Mystic of ineffable typo-
logy all the old order has passed away. The secret of attainment
does not lie in meditation or in thinking, in the realisation of
Divine qualities, in \the invocation of saints or angels ;- it is
a work between the naked soul and God in His uttermost
essence, in an essence so uttermost that " it profiteth little, or
nothing at all, to think upon the loving kindness of God, or
upon the holy angels and saints, or _else upon the glory and
joys of, heaven." That, and all that, is fair work and square
work, good and true work, but it is not materials for building the
Most Secret, Most Holy Temple, into which God and the soul
go in and one only comes out. Yet is the old doctrine the
true- doctrine still there is nothing abrogated and there is
nothing reduced. In all but the deepest paths, it is meet and
right and salutary to seek the interceding angels and the
communion of saints, to dwell upon the Passion of Christ,
and so forth.- The old histories also are truly understood in
the old way ; the passion was no shadowy pageant Christ
died and rose in' the body ; in the body He ascended into
Heaven, and no less and no differently' in that body He sitteth
at the right hand of the Father Almighty.
xviiiAnd yet -these references to doctrine and practice, to symbol,
rite and ceremony,are only like thehillsstanding about Jerusalem,
and into the city mystic, into the central place of debate, they
do not enter anywise. They have not been expelled--they are
simply not there, and the reason is that there they do not belong.
Once more, it is between God and the 'soul. I t is as if the ways
were filled with the pageants of the Heavenly and Ecelesiastical
Hierarchies as if the Masses and, the Matins-and the Ves-
pers celebrated in marvellous and stately measures the Holy
Trinity, the dilucid contemplation of the Persons, the ineffable
secrets of the hypostatic state and the super-incession of Divine
natures. But after all these wonders, rank after rank of the
Blessed Angels, after all visions of the Great White Throne, it
is as if a quiet centre opened unawares and through an im-
measurable silence drew down the soul-from the many
splendours into the one splendour, from the populous cities
of the blest, from the things that are without in the transcend-
ence into the thing that is of all within-as if the soul saw,
there the one God and itself as the one worshipper. But after
a little while the worshipper itself has dissolved, ` and from
henceforth and_ for ever it has the consciousness of God only.
This is the knowledge of self, no longer, attained by a reflex
act of the consciousness, but -by a direct act in the unity of the
infinite consciousness ; in this mode of knowledge there is that
which knows even as it is known, buutt such mode is in virtue
_of such-an union-- that the self does not remain,: because there
is no separateness henceforth. It follows, that the Divine
Union, as I have sought to give it expression apart from all
antecedents and warrants of precursors--I think indeed . that
there are none-is something much deeper and higher than is
understood by the Beatific Vision, which shines with all the
lights of noon and sunrise and sunset at the summit of the
mountain of theology. That Vision is more especially of
St. Thomas, the Angelic Doctor, the mighty Angel of the
xixIntroduction
Schools, expounding the Transcendence to himself in the most
resplendent and spiritual terms of the logical understanding.
The intervening distinction between it and the term of all is
that the one is the state of beholding and the other is the state
of being ; the oneis seeing the Vision and the other is becoming
it. Blessed and Holy are those who receive the experience of God
in the dilucid contemplation, but sanctity and benediction and
all in all is that state wherein contemplation is ineffably'unified,
by a super-eminent leap over of love, with that which is its
object ;, and in that love and in that joining together there is
no passage longer from subject to object. But this is the
Godhead;
These considerations ; have got so far beyond even The
Cloud of Unknowing that it seems almost a fall into matter
to speak, as I had intended, of Molinos and his Spiritual
Guide, which is in no sense really comparable to the older
work. It is a more ascetic treatise, and by its asceticism is
a little hindered ; it is a less catholic treatise, and it suffers
here and there from the particular sense. Yet it bears the
same testimony of a full and complete intention-much too
complete and too full to carry anything of the concerted air-
to maintain the veils of doctrine, to speak the high and
orthodox language of the official Church ; but' again it is like
a moving, yet all remote, echo from a world which has almost
passed out of knowledge. What is there left to the soul that
it should say of the Holy Humanity, of the Precious Blood, of
the five wounds, of the dolorous death and passion? It is not
that all this has been swallowed up in the glories of resur-
rection, but that those who have entered 11 where God keeps
His Throne and communicates Himself with incredible in-
tensity "-and those who have obeyed the last precept " to be
lost in God "-have entered into a new order ; the ships that
carried them have dropped out of sight with the tide, with the
breeze, in the sunshine.
xxY
Introduction.
Now, the secret of this is-not that' Dionysius and
Ruysbroeck, with all their cok&,redes et sodales, had become
Unitarians, but that the term of the Christian dispensation, to
each of them personally, had been fulfilled in each. Christ
had been born and lived, had taught and suffered and died,
had risen and ascended and reigned in them. So that Divine
life, in fine, carriedthem to its last stage. It was not Dionysius
or Ruysbroeck, the author of The Cloud of Unknowing, or,the
soul of the poor imprisoned Jesuit Molinos, but the Christ
nature within each and all of these, within ten thousand times
ten thousand of their peers, in all ages and nations and faiths
and climes, which entered into the incredible intensity ; and
that which is termed the act or state of, being lost in God
is that which I have elsewhere described in a perfection of
all similitudes-which is of my adaptation but not of my
,making--when Christ delivers up ;the Kingdom of each soul
to, His Father, and God is all in all.
This is the state which is beyond the state when it is said
that "they shall see His face."
Hereof is the mystic tradition in Christian Time ; it has
.
been perpetuated in an unbroken line from the beginnings of
the new dispensation until this now. It is of course in itself
the most secret, exotic and incomprehensible of all languages,
though at the same time it is the most open, universal and
simple. The understanding of it is a question of experience,
and the experience is attained in sanctity, though-as I ,have
said, but also elsewhere-the intellectual light concerning it
belongs rather to the dedication out of which sanctity may at
length issue than to the state of saintship: itself. The techni-
calities of the occult sciences may seem hard to the beginner,
and they are actually hard like the wilderness, because they
are barren wastes, but they are in words of one syllable , if
compared_ with the little catechisms of eternal life, which are
exclusive to the children of God.
xxiIntroduction
Behind this Open Entrance to the Closed Palace of thee
King-Which is so like the eye of the needle-there is the--con-
. cealed tradition fti and behind themysticism of Christian Times .
About this it is scarcely possible to-speak here, and it will
require some care not to confuse the image with which I have
opened my statement. The Open Entrance of course leads-to
the Palace, but at a certain point there is found an exceedingly
hidden postern and a path beyond, which is absolutely ,un-
attainable except through the lawful entrance, because, although
the kingdom of Heaven 'tolerates -4 certain quality of en.
lightened and loving violence, the sanctuary of all-its sanctuaries
responds only to the violence of- that man who knows how to
lay hands on himself, so that he may carry none of his extrinsics
to the most intrinsecus place in all the world of God. This
postern is hidden deeply on the deepest side of tradition, but -
by what can be 'traced concerning it, I think that there has
I been such a going to and fro upon the Ladder of Jacob that, .
something more of the states -which are not the term, but are
perhaps penultimate thereto, has been brought back by those
who have accomplished the next but one to all of the Great
Work. I think further that they have gone so far that they. ,,
have seen with their own eyes some intimacies of-the term
itself-being the state of those who go in and do not evermore
come back.
These are aspects of the Secret Tradition in so far as it
has declared itself on the side of God. It remains now to bee
said that there, is a, tradition a rebours, and though it may
seem very hard to put it so roughly and frankly, I have not
taken all the consciousness of the inward man ffoorr my province
to smooth or reduce any of the - distinctions between the loss
and gain of the soul. The tradition a rebours is definitely
and clearly that of miraculous power in the quest and attain-
ment thereof. It is summarised by the ambition of the Magus
in its contrast with the desire of the eyes 'and the hope which
xxiiIntroduction
As there is a door in the soul 'which opens on God, so there
is another door which opens on the recremental deeps, and there
is no doubt thatthe deeps come in when it is opened effectually.
There are also the powers of the • abyss and this is why it
has been worth while to look at the subject seriously . Being
thankful to say that I am, and hoping under God to continue,
without first-hand experience in these departments, it' must be
understood that I speak here under the reserves of derived
knowledge. It should, I think, be understood that there is no
sublimity in those deeps ; they are the cesspools of spiritual life
and the pit of the second death ; their' powers are those of the,
pestbouse, and they are as remote from the sombre terrors and
splendours of Dante's Inferno as are the gold bars of heaven
and 'the stars and lilies of the Blessed, Damozel far-and how
far-away from the Vision and the Union.
There is no especial reason to suppose that there, is a -Black
Sanctuary, a Hidden Church of Hell opened to Christians ; but
it may be, and in the analogy it would seem that there must be,
a communion of-self-lost souls, as there is a communion of saints.
I should, imagine that the Lords of its Convention are to be
feared in a certain -manner, like the Red and the Black Death.
But the versicles and aspirations and_ formulae which must be
strong enough at any moment to undo all the gates of hell and
to cast down 411 its citadels have been taught us almost at our
mothers' knees. I should think that the -Noctem quietam et
xem fier,fectum concedat nobis Dooninus omnifrotens would, be
sufficient to disperse cohorts and not only the isolated negotium
terambulans in tenebris. The Paternoster, moreover, is worth
all the Golden Verses of Pythagoras, all the Commentary of
H ierocles,_ and every oracle of Zoroaster, including the forged
citations. And, in fine,tI donot think that there is any power of
the abyss, or any thrice-great Magus, or any sorcerer in final
impenitence who hascharm, talisman, or conjuration which could
look in the face without perishing that e loving supplication .:
xxvIntroduction
Custod nos, Domine, ut puftillam oculi; sub umbra atarum
tuarum, ftrotege nos.
Itis improbable that there is any hidden science in respect
of Magic, whether Black or White, but it should-be noticed that
the occult sciences with which I am concerned here are reducible
under this especial head, as it is the greater which includes
the lesser, Its processes lie on the surface, and the so-called
sanctuaries of occultism may, extend the codices but are unlikely
to increase the efficacy. In respect of Black Magic, so far as.
there is a textual excuse for separating it from that uterine sister
which was reared on the same milk, I have indicated that-there
is nothing to suggest one touch of sublimity in diabolism . In
its, so to speak, pure state, but absit verbum-I should rather
have said undiluted-it is the simple ambition and attempt to
compel demons, and observe here that_ it is Satanism to deal, ex
hypothesis with the abyss, for whatever purpose. In its worst state
it is the Grimoires and the little books of wicked and ultra-foolish
secrets. The difference between the Grimorium Verum and
the Key of Solomon is that the one deals openly with the
devil and his emissaries, and the other with spirits that are
obviously of the same category but are saluted by more kindly
names. If it were possible to formulate the motive of Black
Magic in the terms of an imputed transcendence, it is the
hunger and thirst of the soul seeking to satisfy its craving
in the ashpits of uncleanness, greed, hatred and malice. It
is . exactly comparable to the life of that Chourineur in The
Mysteries of Paris who lived upon diseased offal and grew to
be satisfied therewith. But this unfortunate could not help
himself exactly, while the soul of the black magician has usually
sought evil for its own sake.
I recur therefore for amoment to that door of the soul which,
as I have said, opens on God, and it is that which by a necessary
but somewhat arbitrary distinction must be called the door to
the heights. In their proper understanding, the deeps are holy
xxviIntroduction
as the heights, and of course in any true philosophical sense
there is neither height nor deep, for these arenot journeys
made in space and time However, that symbolic door is the
golden; way of satisfaction ; but it is'not of magic, of divination,
of clairvoyance, of the communication with spirits, of what order
soever ; it does not offer the fabled power over Nature of which
the Magus is said to be in search and to which lying rituals have
from all time pretended that he can attain. It is the hunger and
thirst after sanctity and the overfilling of the soul therewith.
The word clairvoyance brings me to the last point- and to
the third distinction which I have promised to mention.
The office of occultism is of course comparable to the-
empirical science of the psychic `side of things, which is being
followed at the present day with circumspection and keenness
all over Europe and America. It is a poor compliment in one
way to.institute the comparison, because that which has passed
through thee alembics of occultism is the dregs and lees of
thought, intelligence, motive, and of all that goes to make up
the side of action in man. Psychical research, on the other hand,
has throughout been actuated by an honourable-often by a
pious-motive ; it has adopted a scientific method, so far as the
subject would .permit it has put forth no claims and abides
judgment by results. It is of course, from my point-,.p view,
very far from the term. I do not believe for -one moment that
anything responds to its methods from the unseen side of things
which can bringg good to man by the intercourse. But it has
to be remembered that every supramundane or abnormal fact
which is registered by this kind of research is so much evidence
added to the dossier of occult science. If the phenomena of
psychism are as psychical research has registered, the old pro-
cesses of Magic may be unquestionably veridic processes within
their own lines, They did not put the operator in communion, on
the highest supposition, with Raphael, Gabriel and Uriel, or with
-Astaroth and Belial; and Lucifer, on the lowest, any more than
xxviiIntroduction
psychical research and spiritism have ever 'established inter
,course with the souls of the faithful departed. But both have
produced the extraordinary pathological condition and the phe-
nomena, of the soul manifesting. The distinction between the
two methods is that one was usually the result of personally
induced hallucinations, complicated by the frequent intervention
of abnormal psychic facts-the whollee following a more or less
maniac ceremonial-while the other is the scientific investigation
of similar and analogical states in predisposed subjects whom
the operator may seek to control. I have no reason to suppose
that the sober, ordered and well judged methods of such ex-
perimental research will succeed in taking the subject into any
grade of certitude which§ will be of permanent value to man,
and the question closes here so far as I am concerned . The
indications-such as they are-gather rather on the other
side. The path of certitude is in the inward man, as it stands
to, all reason that it must be, if God and His Kingdom are
within. There is thus, on the best and most temperate hypo-
thesis, no object in going towards any other direction than
thither wherein is contained the All.
Two things only now remain to be said : It will be seen, in
the first place, that from that part of the Secret Tradition in
Christian Times, with the summary details of which I opened
the present conference, there could have never been any deriva-
tion to occulttradition and so-called occult science . In the second
place, the work which hereafter and now follows shall permit the
Rituals of White and Black Magic to speak for themselves as to
the tradition therein and its value.
d
xxviiiCONTENTS
PAGE
PREFACE VII
INTRODUCTION . xv
PART I
the Literature- of -Ceremonial ' agfc
CHAPTER I
THE ANTIQUITY OF MAGICAL RITUALS
I. THE IMPORTANCE OF CEREMONIAL MAGIC 3
2. THE DISTINCTION BETWEEN- WHITE, AND BLACK MAGIC 13
3. THE UNPRINTED LITERATURE OF CEREMONIAL MAGIC . 17
CHAPTER II
THE RITUALS OF TRANSCENDENTAL MAGIC
I. THE ARBATEL OF MAGIC . 24
2. THEOSOPHIA c,PNEUMATICA . 35
3.. THE ENCHIRIDION OF POPE LEO 39
4. THE SEVEN MYSTERIOUS ORISONS 46
5. SUMMARY or TRAxs0zxD9NTAL MAGIC 54
CHAPTER III
COMPOSITE RITUALS
§, I. THE KEY OF SOLOMON THE KING 58
2. THE LESSER KEY OF SOLOMON . 64
xxixContents
FACE
§ 3. THE PAULINE ART 66
§ 4. THE ALMADEL
§ 5. THE FOURTH BOOK OF CORNELIUS AGRIPPA
§ 6. THE HEPTAMERON
§ 7. THE SACRED MAGIC OF- ABRAMELIN THE MADE
CHAPTER IV
THE RITUALS OF BLACK MAGIC
§ I. THE GRIMORIUM VERUM : 96
§ 2. TRUE BLACK MAGIC . I00
§ 3. THEGRAND GRIMOIRE I00
§ 4. THE GRIMOIRE OF HONORIUS . 103
§ 5. MINOR AND SPURIOUS RITUALS OF BLACK MAGIC 110
§ 6. THE BLACK PULLET . 113
§ 7. TALISMANS OF THE SAGE OF THE PYRAMIDS 117
§ 8. THE GOLD-FINDING HEN . 130
PART II
€fn complete orimoite
CHAPTER I
THE PREPARATION OF THE OPERATOR
CONCERNING THE LOVE OF GOD ,
139
CONCERNING FORTITUDE , 142
CONCERNING CONTINENCE AND ABSTINENCE . 144
CONCERNING THE EXTERNAL PREPARATION OF THE OPERATOR,
AND FIRSTLY CONCERNING ABLUTION 147
§ 5. CONCERNING THE EXTERNAL PREPARATION OF THE OPERATOR,
AND) SECONDLY CONCERNING THE VESTMENTS 148
xxxC ntents
CHAPTER II,
THE INITIAL RITES AND CEREMONIES-
. - /PAGE'
§ I. CONCERNING THE VIRTUES' OF THE PLANETS I50
§ 2. A GENERAL INSTRUCTION CONCERNING THE INSTRUMENTS RE-
QUIRED FOR THE ART
154
§ 3-- CONCERNING THE ROD; AND STAFF OF THE ART 161
4- CONCERNING THE PEN AND INK OF THE ART . . 164
§§ 5. CONCERNING VIRGIN WAX OR VIRGIN EARTH . I68
§6. CONCERNING THE SILKEN CLOTH I6q
7. CONCERNING THE VICTIM OF THE ART 169
§ 8. CONCERNING ASPERSION AND CLEANSING .
177
9. CONCERNING THE TIME OF OPEI,tATION 1S2
CHAPTER III`
CONCERNING THE DESCENDING HIERARCHY
§ I. THE NAMES AND OFFICES OF EVIL, SPIRITS 184
§ 2. CONCERNING THE FORMS OF INFERNAL SPIRITS IN THEIR
MANIFESTATIONS - 193
CHAPTER IV
THE MYSTERIES- OF GOETIC THEURGY ACCORDING
TO THE LESSER KEY OF SOLOMON THE KING
CONCERNING THE SPIRITS OF THE BRAZEN VESSEL, OTHERWISE
- CALLED THE FALSE- MONARCHY -OF DEMONS . 195
§ . CONCERNING THE RITE OF CONJURATION FROM THE "LEME
GETON" 220
CHAPTER- V
CONCERNING THE MYSTERY OF THE 'SANCTUM REG-
NUM, OR THEM GOVERNMENT OF EVIL SPIRITS;
BEING THE RITE OF CONJURATION ACCORDING
TO THE GRIMORIUM VERUM 236
xxxiContents
CHAPTER VI
THE MYSTERIES OF INFERNAL EVOCATION ACCORD.
ING TO THE GRAND GRIMOIRE.-
PAG*
§ i. THE RITE OF LUCIFUGE . . . 241
§'2. CONCERNING THE GENUINE SANCTUM REGNUM, OR THE TRUE
METHOD OF MAKING PACTS 254
CHAPTER VII
THE METHOD OF HONORIUS
CHAPTER VIII
MISCELLANEOUS AND MINOR PROCESSES
§ I. CONCERNING WORKS OF. HATRED AND DESTRUCTION 297
§ 2. CONCERNING VENEREAL EXPERIMENTS 299
§ 3. CONCERNING THE EXPERIMENT) OF INVISIBILITY 306
§ 4. CONCERNING THE HAND OF GLORY . 310
§. 5. CONCERNING THE VISION OF SPIRITS IN THE AIR . . 313
§ 6. CONCERNING DIVINATION BY THE WORD OF, URIEL . 314
§ "f. CONCERNING THE MIRROR OF SOLOMON, SUITABLE FOR ALL
KINDS OF DIVINATION 318
§ 8. CONCERNING THE THREE RINGS OF SOLOMON, SON OF DAVID .. 320
CHAPTER IX
CONCERNING INFERNAL NECROMANCY .
CONCLUSIONEXPLANATION OF FULL-PAGE PLATES
PLATE I
FRortxtsPIEcs.-Edward Kelley, the Alchemist and alleged Magician, in the
act of invoking''the Spirit of a ,Deceased Person.
The plate is reproduced' from the second edition of Ebenezer Sibley's'
Illustration of the Occult Sciences. The companion of Kelley within the
circle is presumably 'Paul Waring, who, according to Weaver (Funereal
Monuments, 1631, pp.' 45, 46), was associated with him in all his conjures
tions. The scene is intended to represent the churchyard of Walton Ledale,
"in -the county of Lancaster." , The information of Sibley is derived from
Weaver, whose authority is .said to have been Waring. On this point and
the general question -of Kelley's necromantic pursuits, see my Akhemical
Writings of Edward Kelley, Biographical Preface, pp. xxviL-xxx.
PLATE II
The Angels of the Seven Planets, their Sigils, the Signs and Houses of the
Planets, the names of the Seven Heavens, according to the Magical
Elements of Peter de Abano, with the names of the Olympic Spirits of
the Planets according to the ArbatelofMagic, and the Infernal Sigils of
the EvilPlanetary Spirits according to the Red Dragon.
The name of Michael, the Angel of the Lord's Day, appears over his
Sigil, together with the Astrological Symbol of Sol, the Zodiacal Sign of
Leo, which is the House of the Sun, and the name of the Fourth Heaven,
Machen. The name of Gabriel, the Angel, of Monday, appears- over his
Sigil, together with the Astrological Symbol of Luna, the Zodiacal Sign of
Cancer, which is the House of the Moon, and the name of the First Heaven,
Shamain. The name of Samael, the Angel of Tuesday, appears over his -
Sigil, together with the Astrological Symbol of Mars, the Zodiacal Signs
of Aries and Scorpio, which are the Houses of the Planet, and the' name
of the Fifth Heaven, Machon. The name of Raphael, the Angel of
Wednesday, appears over his Sigil together with the Astrological Symbol
of Mercury, the Zodiacal Signs of Gemini and Virgo, which are the Houses
of the Planet, and the name of the Second Heaven, Raquie. The name
of Sachiel, the Angel of Thursday, appears over his Sigil, together with
' the Astrological Symbol of Jupiter, the Zodiacal Signs of Sagittarius'and
Pisces, which are the Houses of the Planet, and the name of the Sixth
Heaven, Zebul. The name of Anael, the Angel of Friday, appears, over
xxxiiiExplanation of Full-Page Plates
his Sigil, together with the Astrological Symbol of Venus, the Zodiacal Signs
of Taurus and Libra, which are the Houses, of the Planet, and the name
of the Third Heaven, Sagun. The name of Cassiel, the Angel of Saturday,
appears overhis Sigil, together with the Astrological Symbol of Saturn, and
the Zodiacal Signs of Capricornus and Aquarius, which are the Houses of
the Planet.
PLATE III
Mystic Figures of the Enchiridion.
Figure I., the mystic symbol of the Tau, converted into a monogram
which has been supposed to signify the word Taro or Tom ., Figure II.,
the triple Tau. Figure III., an arbitrary figure supposed- to represent the
fortieth part of the stature of Jesus Christ. Figure IV., the Labarum of
Constantine, with the usual inscription, « In this sign thou shalt conquer,"-
and the emblems of the Passion of Christ. Figure V., a double door,
connected by a bar, and inscribed with the first seven letters of the Latin
alphabet. Figure VI., a composite symbol of unknown meaning. The
second circle contains twenty-two letters, which recall the Keys of the Tarot .
Figure VIIL represents the dimensions of the wound produced by the lance
of the Centurion in the side of Jesus Christ. Figure VIII., a two-edged
sword, for which various simple meaniinnggss may be conjectured. -Its inscription
has been adopted by alchemists.
PLATE IV
Mystic Figures of the Enchiridion.
Figure I., the reversed form of a well-known occult symbol. The Hebrew
words signify Jehovah-Elohim, Agla, :9lohim Tsabaoth. Figure II., the
Labarum of Constantine, another form . Figure III., the inscription on this
talisman is unintelligible. Figure IV., the occult symbol of the pentagram,
reversed, and' therefore the sign of the Demon, according to Eliphas Levi.
Possibly, misplaced by_ the ignorance of the printer, but it occurs in this
manner in many books which do not apparently connect with Black Magic.
Figure V., a talisman with the .monogram of Michael. Figure VI., un-
described, but belonging 'to a prayer of St. Augustine addressed to the
Holy Spirit to receive a revelation. Figure VII., the characters of this
talisman would seem to be Hebrew, but are so corrupt that they are
unintelligible. Figure VIII., a talisman with the monogram of Gabriel.
Figure IX., the talisman and monogram of Michael.
PLATE V
The Characters ofEvilSpirits, from the so-called "Fourth Book" of Cornelius
Agrippa, and,,described as follows in the original.
r. A right line; 2. a crooked line ; 3. a reflexed line; 4. a simple
figure; 5. penetrate ; 6. broken; 7. a right letter; 8. a retrograde letter;
9. an inverted letter; z o. flame; r r.wind; 12. water; 13. a mass; 14. min ;'
xxxivFull-Page
Explanation of Plates
is. clay ; r6. a:flying, creature; rq, a creeping thing; r8. a serpent; rg. an
eye; 20. a hand; 21. a foot; 22. a crown; 23. a crest; 24. horns; 25. a
sceptre; 26. a sword; 27. a scourge.
Thhee Sabbatic.Goat, from the Ritual of Transandentul Magic, by Lliphas
LEvi, who identifies it with the Baphomet of Mendes, and does not
regard it as connected with Black Magic, but as "a pantheistic and
magical figure of the absolute."
PLATE VII-
The instruments of Black Magic, from the Grimoire entitled True Black
Magic.
Figure I., the knife-with the white handle. Figure II., the knife with
the black handle. Figure III., the aretrave, or hook: Figure IV., the
bolline or sickle. Figure V., the stylet. Figure VI., the needle. Figure
VII., the wand. Figure VIII., the lancet. Figure IX., the staff. Figure
X., the sword of the master. Figures XI., XII.,,XIII., the swords of the
assistants.
PLATE VIII
The Magical circle used in Goetic-Theurgy, according to the Lesser Key
ofSolomon the King, showing the position of the operator, the divine
names and symbols to be inscribed within and about the double; circle,
and the situation of the lights.
The figure and place of the triangle, into which the spiritis commanded
will be found, with description, in the text, pp. 220-223. The Divine
Names differ in some ofthe manuscripts.
PLATE IX
The Goetic Circle of Black Evocations and Pacts, according to Eliphas Levi.
The circle is formed from the skin of the victim, fastened to the ground
by four nails taken, from the coffin ofan executed criminal. The skull is
that of a, parricide, the horns those of a goat ; the male bat opposite the
skull must have been drowned in 'blood; and the black cat, whose head
forms the fourth-object on the circumference of the circle, must have been
fed on human flesh. There is no authority for any of these stipulations .
The small circles within the triangle show the place of the operator and
his assistants.
xxxvFROM BOTTICBLLI'S "TEMPTATION."
SISTINE CHAPEL,. ROME.PART I
THE LITERATURE OF CEREMONIAL MAGIC
ATHE SERPENT OF THE GARDEN
OF THE HESPERIDES.
From a Greek Vase FaintingThe Antiquity of Magical Rituals
were all magically possible, but they were all subsidiary to,
that which was head and crown of all-the art of dealing
with spirits. The presumed possession of the secret of this art
made Magic formidable, and made therefore its history. There
was a time indeed when Ceremonial Magic threatened to
absorb the whole, circle of the occult sciences ; it was the
superior method, the royal road it effected immediately what
the others accomplished laboriously, after a long time .' It
had, moreover, the palmary recommendation that it' was a
conventional art, working by definite formulae ; above all, it
was a process in words.
It was the fascination of this process which brought
men and women-all sorts and conditions of both-to the
Black Sabbath and to the White Sabbath,2 and blinded
t Thus, the abstruse processes of astrology might, on the hypothesis, be dispensed with
altogetherin favour of the evocation, of one of those numerous spirits whose office it was togive
instruction in astrology and an instantaneous knowledge thereof It is otherwise obvious that
the least occult of the esoteric.sciences was exploded by an art which provided familiar spirits
who could discern the past, present and future. In like manner, Alchemy was superfluous
for a magician who could cause treasures to be transported from the depths of the sea or the
bowels of the earth, and even from the royal exchequer, in the more convenient shape of
current coin.
$ There is much the same ground for this distinction as for that made between the Black
and White Magic of the Rituals. Such meetings were abominable or fantastic according. to
the disposition of those who frequented them. As a whole, they have probably been much
exaggerated. Jules Gannet, inhisHistoire do la Mag4sonFnz,we,dejiuis is commeniemenfde la
Monarchic jusqu'd nos jours (i8i8), speculates that the monks, who abused public credulity for
the sake of diversion amidst their idleness, may have assumed ridiculous disguises, and may
themselves have committed the extravagances which they attributed to devils. ,The same author
affirms, as certain and incontestable, that in all the criminal trials of sorcerers and sorceresses
the scene of the Sabbath was inyariably in the' neighbourhood of a monastery. "Since the
destruction of the monastic orders," he concludes triumphantly, "no more is heard of such
assemblies, even in places where the fear of the devil still exists." Add to this that seventy-five
years later, Papus, the French occultist, would persuade his readers that all the Grimoires of
Black Magic were the work of priests, and the case is almostas complete as French reasoning
can make it. It is cited here to show that, outside the demonologists, the Sabbath has been
viewed rather as a moonlight mummery, where the presiding genius was not the fallen star
Wormwood, but Venus, and, even on the monkish hypothesis, the mysteries were those of
Priapus rather than Pluto. The records of trials for sorcery rest under the gravest suspicion,
firstly, because there is no guarantee that they have not been garbled, and, secondly, becaus .
information extracted by torture is, in the ultimate, always of the nature which it was intended
to extract; but they are also, or at least largely, records of sexual mania.
7The Book, of Ceremonial Magic
them to the danger of the stake. It was the full and
clear acceptation of this process as effectual by Church and
State which kindled the faggots for -the magician in every
Christian land. Astrology was scarcely discouraged, and if the
alchemist were occasionally tortured, it was only to extract his
secret. There was,no danger in these things, and hence there
was no judgment against them, except by imputation from their
company ; but Magic, but dealing with spirits, was that which
made even the peasant tremble, and when the peasant shakes at
his hearth, the king is not secure in his palace nor the Pope
at St. Peter's, unless both can protect their own . Moreover,
in the very claim of Ceremonial Magic there was an implied
competition with the essential claim of the Church .'
The importance of Ceremonial Magic, and of the literature
which embodies it, to the history of the occult sciences being
admitted, there is no need to argue that this history is a legiti-
mate and reasonable study ; in such a case, knowledge is its
own end, and there can be certainly no question as to the dis-
tinguished influence which has been exercised by the belief in
Magic throughout the ages. In order, however, to understand
the literature of Magic, it, is necessary to obtain first of all a
clear principle of regarding it. It will be superfluous to say
that we must surrender the legends, as such, to those who work
in legends, and dispute about their essential value. We need
not debate whether Magic, for example, can really square the
3 That is to say, the Church communicates the supernatural world by a sacramental system,
and the direct communication which Magic pretends to establish must, if established, tend to
supersede the Church, in the mind of occultism at least. It is not surprising that a sacerdotalism
so acute, especially along the lines of its own interests, as that of the Roman Church should
discern that the rival claim assailed its fundamental position, but it is regrettable that an
institution possessing the sacramental system should have disturbed itself about a direct com-
munication of the kind attempted by Ceremonial Magic. If it be said that the Church recog-
inised the possibilities which, on certain sides, lie behind the veil of vain observance, then it
,was not so acute as would seem, for behind that veil there is no danger to the sacramental
System. Those possibilities belong to the life within, and the Church has its heritagetherein.CHAPTER I
the Rntfquitp of .h ag#tat la#tualo
§ i. The Importance of Ceremonial Magic
H E ordinary fields of psychological inquiry, largely in
T
possession of the pathologist, are fringed byy a border-
land of occult and dubious experiment into which patho-
logists may occasionally venture, but it is left for the most part
to unchartered explorers. Beyond these fields and this border-
land there lies the legendary wonder-world of Theurgy, so
called, of Magic and Sorcery, a world of fascination or terror,
as the mind which regards it is tempered, but in either case the
antithesis of admitted possibility. There all paradoxes seem
to obtain actually, contradictions coexist logically, the effect is
greater than the cause and the shadow more than the sub-
stance. Therein the visible melts into the unseen, the invisible
is manifested openly,' motion from place to place is accomplished
without traversing the intervening distance, matter passes
through matter. There two straight lines may enclose a space;
space has a fourth dimension, and untrodden fields beyond it ;
without metaphor and without evasion, the circle is mathe-
matically squared. There life is prolonged, youth renewed,
physical immortality secured. There earth becomes gold, and
gold earth. 'There words and wishes possess creative power,
thoughts are things, desire realises its object. There, also, the
dead live and the hierarchies of extra-mundane intelligence
are within easy communication, and become ministers or
3The Book of Ceremonial Magic
tormentors, guides or destroyers, of man. There the Law of
Continuity is suspended by the interference of the higher Law
of Fantasia.
But, unhappily, this domain of enchantment is in all re-
spects comparable to the gold of Faerie, which is presumably
its medium of exchange. It cannot withstand daylight, the
test of the human eye, or the scale of reason. When these
are applied, its paradox becomes an anticlimax, its antithesis
ludicrous ; its contradictions are. without genius ; its mathe-
matical marvels end in a verbal quibble ; its elixirs fail even as
purges; its transmutations do not need exposure at the assayer's
hands ; its marvel-working words prove barbarous mutilations
of dead languages, and are impotent from the moment that
they are understood ; departed friends, and even planetary
intelligences, must not be seized by the skirts, for they are apt
to desert their draperies, and these are not like the mantle of
Elijah.
The little contrast here instituted will serve to exhibit that
there are at least two points of view regarding Magic and
its mysteries-the simple and homogeneous view, prevailing
within a charmed circle among the few survivals whom reason
has not hindered from entering, and that of the world without,
which is more complex, more composite, but sometimes more
reasonable only by imputation. There is also a third view, in
which legend is checked by legend and wonder substituted for
wonder. Here it is not the Law of Continuity persisting in its
formulae despite the Law of Fantasia ; it is Croquemetaine
explained by Diabolus, the runes of Elf-land read with the
interpretation of Infernus ; it is the Law of Bell and Candle,
the Law of Exorcism, and its final expression is in the terms of
the auto-dafe. For this view the wonder-world exists without
any question, except that of the Holy Tribunal ; it is not what
4The Antiquity of Magical Rituals
it seems, but is adjustable to the eye of faith in the light from
the Lamp of the Sanctuaries ; in a word, its angels are demons,
'its Melusines stryges, its phantoms vampires, its spells and
mysteries the Black Science. Here Magic itself rises 'up and
responds that there is a Black and a White Art, an Art of
Hermes and an Art of Canidia, a Science of the Height
and a Science of the Abyss, of Metatron and Belial . In this
manner a fourth point of view emerges ; they are all, however,
illusive ; there is the positive illusion of the legend, affirmed. by
the remaining adherents of its literal sense, and the' negative,
illusion which denies the legend . crassly without considering
that there is a possibility behind it ; there is they illusion which
accounts for the legend by an opposite hypothesis, and the
illusion of the legend which reaffirms itself with a distinction.
When these have been disposed of, there remain two really
important questions-the question of the Mystics and the ques-
tion of history and literature. To a very large extent the first
is closed to discussion, because the considerations which it in-
volves cannot be presented with profit on either side in the
public assemblies of the reading world. So far as may be.
held possible, it has been dealt with already. As regards the
second, it is the large concern and purpose of this inquiry, and',
the limits of its importance may therefore be stated shortly.
There can be no extensive literatures without motives pro-
portionate to account for them. I f we take the magical litera-
ture of Western Europe from the Middle Ages and onward,
we shall find that it is moderately large. Now, the acting
principles in the creation of that literature will prove to rule
also in its history ; what is obscure in the one may be under-
stood by help of the other ; each reacted upon each ; as the
literature grew, it helped to make the history, and the new
history was so much additional material for further literature.
5The Book of Ceremonial Magic
There were, of course,` many motive principles at work, for the
literature and history of Magic are alike exceedingly intricate,
and there are many interpretations of principles which are apt
to be confused with the principles, as, for example, the influence
of what is loosely called superstition upon ignorance ; these. and
any interpretations must be ruled out of an inquiry like the
present. The maim principles are summed in the conception of
a number of assumed mysterious forces in the universe which
could be put in operation by man, or at least followed in their
secret processes. In the ultimate, however, they could all be
rendered secondary, if not passive, to the will of man ; for even
in astrology, which was the discernment of forces regarded as
peculiarly fatal, there was an art of ruling, and sajiens domina-
bitur astris became an axiom of the science. This conception
culminated or centred in the doctrine of unseen, intelligent
powers, with whom it was possible for prepared persons to
communicate ; the methods by which this communication was
attempted are the most important processes of Magic, and the
books which embody these methods, called Ceremonial Magic,
are the most important part of the literature. Here, that is to
say, is the only branch of the subject which it is necessary to
understand in order to understand the history. Had Magic
been focussed in the reading of the stars, it would have pos-
sessed no history to speak of, for astrology involved intellectual
equipments which, comparatively speaking, were possible only
to the few. Had Magic centred in the transmutation of metals,
it would never have moved multitudes, but would have remained
what that still is, the quixotic hope which emerges at a far
distance from the science of chemistry. We may take the
remaining occult sciences collectively, but there is nothing in
them of themselves which would make history. In virtue of
the synthetic doctrine which has been already formulated, they
6l
The Antiquity of Magical Rituals
t
circle, as magicians testify, or whether such an operation is'
impossible even to Magic, as commonly would be objected by
those who deny the art. We need not seriously discuss the
proposition that the devil assists the magicians to perform a
mathematical impossibility, or its qualified form, that the circle
can be squared indifferently by those who invoke the angel
Cassiel of the hierarchy of Uriel and those who invoke Astaroth.
We shall see very shortly, as already indicated in the preface,
that we are dealing with a bizarre literature, which passes, by
various fantastic phases, through all folly into crime. We have
to account for these characteristics.
The desire to communicate with spirits is older than history ;
it connects with ineradicable principles in human nature, which,
have been discussed too often for it to be necessary to recite
them here ; and the attempts to satisfy that desire have usually
taken a shape which does gross outrage to reason. Between .
the most ancient processes, such as those of Chaldean Magic,
and the rites of the Middle Ages, there are marked correspond-
ences, and there is something of common doctrine, as distinct
from intention, in which identity would more or less obtain,
underlying them both. The doctrine of compulsion, or the,
power which both forms pretended to exercise even upon supe-
rior spirits by the use of certain words, is a case in point. In
approaching the Ceremonial Magic of the Middle Ages, we
must therefore bear in mind that we are dealing with a literature
which, though modern in its actual presentation, embodies some
elements of great antiquity.' It is doubtful whether the presence
of these elements can be accounted for on the principle that
mankind in all ages works unconsciously for the accomplishment
1 The Ceremonial Magic of certain Graeco-Egyptian papyri offers the closestt analogies
with the processes of the Kabalistic school, but they are the channel and not the source .
We must look beyond history, certainly far beyond the documents of Leyden, for the origin
of Ceremonial Magi.c
9The Book of Ceremonial Magic
of similar intentions in an analogous way ; a bizarre inten-
tion, of course, tends independently to be fulfilled in a bizarre
manner, but in this case the similarity is so close that it is more
easily explained by the perpetuation-sporadic and natural or
concerted and artificial-of , an antique tradition, for which
channels could be readily assigned. There is one upon the face
of the literature, and that is the vehicle of Kabalistic symbolism,
though it cannot be held to cover the entire distance in time .
There have been two ways of regarding the large and im-
perfectly explored literature which embodies the Kabalah of the
Jews, and these in turn will give two methods of accounting for
the spurious and grotesque processes which enter so extensively
into Ceremonial Magic. It is treated either as a barren mysti-
fication, a collection of supremely absurd treatises, in which
obscure nonsense is enunciated with preternatural solemnity,, or
it is regarded as a body of theosophy, written chiefly in the
form of symbolism. The first view is that which is formed, I
suppose, almost irresistibly upon a superficial acquaintance,
and there is not any need to add that it is the one which obtains
generally in derived judgments, for here, as in other cases, the
second-hand opinion issues from the most available source. It
is just to add that it does not differ very seriously from the
opinions expressed in the past by a certain section of scholar-
ship. The alternative judgment is that which prevails among
those students of the literature who have approached it with
a certain preparation through acquaintance with other channels
of the Secret Tradition. From the one it would follow that
the Ceremonial Magic which at a long distance draws from
the Kabalah, reproduces its absurdities, possibly with further
exaggerations, or it is the subject-matter of the literature carried
to its final results. Two erroneous views have issued from the
other-an exaggerated importance attributed to the processes
10The Antiquity of Magical Rituals
in question on the ground of their exalted connections, and-
this, however, is rarely met with-an inclination toregard them
also as symbolical writing.
There is no ground for the criticism of the first inference,
which has arisen legitimately enough and is that which ;will be
most acceptable to the majority of readers. Those who value
Kabalistic literature as a storehouse' of symbolism, the inner
sense of which is or may be of importance, but see nothing in
the processes of Ceremonial Magic to make them momentous
in their literal sense or susceptible to interpretation, will be
tempted to dismiss them as mediaeval and later impostures,
which must be carefully distinguished from the true sym-
bolical tradition. In either case the ceremonial literature is
disdainfully rejected, and it follows in this manner that alter-
natives which exclude one another both reach the truth as
their term.
There is, however, yet another point of view, and it is of
some moment, as it connects with that question of the In-
stituted Mysteries about which it has been already observed .
that very little has transpired. Most students of occultism
are acquainted with intimations and rumours of the existence
in modern times of more' than one Occult as of more t> an
one Mystical Fraternity, deriving, or believed to . derive, from
other. associations of the past. There are, of course, many
unaffiliated occultists, as most 'mystics are unaffiliated, but the
secret Fraternities exist, and the keys of occult symbolism are
said to be in their possession. From a variety of isolated
statements scattered up and down the works of professed
occultists in recent-years, it is possible to summarise broadly
the imputed standpoint of these bodies in respect of Cere-
monial Magic. I will express it in brief as follows . There
is no extant Ritual, as there is no doctrine, which contains, or
11The Book of Ceremonial Magic
can possibly contain, the real secret of magical procedure or
the essence of occult doctrine. The reason-whatever may
be said in the excess of some self-constituted exponents-
is not because there is, or can be, any indicible process, but
because the knowledge in question is in the custody of those
who have taken effectual measures for its 'protection and
though, from time to time, some secrets of initiation, belonging
to this order, have filtered through printed books into the world
at large, the real mysteries have never escaped . The litera- .
ture of Magic falls, therefore, on this hypothesis, under three
heads : (a.) The work of putative adepts, stating as much as
could be stated outside the circle of initiation, and primarily
designed to attract those who might be ripe for entrance.
(b.) The speculations of independent seekers, who, by thought,
study and intuition, sometimes. attained veridic results without
assistance. (c.) Travesties of occult doctrine, travesties of
occult intention, travesties of occult procedure, complicated by
filtrations from the superior source.'
The opinions of professed occultists on any subject what-
soever are of no importance to myself, and are named only to
r In this connection, I may perhaps be permitted to quote a general statement on the
subject which I once received from a correspondent who appeared to claim in his day some
connection of an unattached kind with the sources of secret knowledge. "Practical Magic is
the science of the economy of spiritual dynamics, and is concerned with those Theurgic processes
whereby he who has trained himself for the purpose can, by virtue of powers inherent in man's
spiritual constitution (but undeveloped in the majority of mankind), enter into relations with
the unseen intelligences to whom are assigned, in due order, the control of what are called
natural forces. 'Ceremonial Magic'" (presumably not that of the Ceremonial Litgrature) "is
Official Magic, in which the Magician, in connection with one or more assistants, acts as the
delegate of an occult Fraternity, who, for some very important end, wish to communicate with
beings of a higher order than usual. For this purpose there is a recognised ceremonial,_ or
rather there are two-the 'ceremonial of approach' and the 'ceremonial of the presence.' It is
chiefly in the former that lights, fumigations, symbolic figures and numbers, and incantations
occur, all of which have their use, either as credentials of authority or as weapons of attack and
defence in the intermediate hostile region between the material and spiritual universe." It
should be understood that I cite this testimony merely as an illustration of fantasy presented
in the guise of exactitude. I do not consider that the least credit should be attached to the
statementper se,as representing an actual claim made by any secret fraternity, and the claim is
without consequence, should it happen that it does.
12The Antiquity of Magical Rituals
establish a point of view ; but most Ceremonial Magic belongs
to the third class, on the assumption that it still exists, like some
other paths of Satanism ; the first, by its . nature, is not repre-
sented, and the second only slightly. In a word, Ceremonial
Magic reflects mainly the egregious ambitiohs and incorporates
the mad processes of mediaeval sorcery-of the Sabbath above
all. The additional elements are debased applications of
various Kabalistic methods, seering processes current among
country people and fantastic attempts to reduce magical legends
to a formal practice.
Whichever of the above views the reader may prefer to
adopt, it will be seen that the net result as regards the Rituals
is not generically different, that they are of literary and his-
torical interest, but nothing further. For the occultist they
will possess, from their associations, an importance which will
be of no moment to another student . It is desirable that they
should not be undervalued, as records of the past, because
they have exercised an influence, and they are memorable as
curiosities thereof; but it is more desirable still that the weak
and credulous should be warned against acting like fools, and
that those who are seeking spiritual certitude should be dis-
suaded from the science of the abyss.
2. The Distinction between White and Black Magic 1
Having considered the possible standpoints from which the
Rituals may be regarded, we come now to the distinctions
that are made between them, and, first and foremost, to that
'which has been already'mentioned and is artificially instituted
between White and Black Magic. The history of this dis-
1 It should be understood that this section contains what was said upon the subject, and
seemed then sufficient to say, in the original edition. It stands now substantially as it then
stood; the. extensions are in the preface and in the introductory part.
13The Book of Ceremonial - Magic
tinction is exceedingly obscure, but there can be no question
that in its main aspect it is modern-that is to say, in -so
far, as it depends upon a sharp contrast between Good and
Evil Spirits. In Egypt, in India and in Greece, there was
no dealing with devils in the Christian sense of the expression ;
Typhon, Juggernaut and Hecate were not less divine than
the gods of the over-world, and the offices of Canidia were
probably in their way as sacred as the peaceful mysteries of
Ceres.
Each of the occult sciences was, however, liable to that
species of abuse which is technically but fantastically known.
as Black Magic. Astrology, or the appreciatio,$ of the celestial
influences in their operation upon the nature and life of man,
could be perverted in the composition of malefic talismans by
means of those influences . Esoteric Medicine, which con-
sisted in the application of occult forces to the healing of
disease in man, and included a traditional knowledge of the
medicinal properties resident in some substances disregarded
by ordinary pharmacy,' produced in its malpractice the secret
science of' poisoning and the destruction of health, reason
or life by unseen forces. The. transmutation of metals by
Alchemy resulted in their sophistication. In like manner,
Divination, or the processes by which lucidity was supposed
to be induced, became debased into various forms of witch-
craft and Ceremonial Magic into dealing with devils. White
Ceremonial Magic is, by the terms of its definition, an attempt
to communicate with Good Spirits for a good, or at least an
innocent, purpose. Black Magic is the attempt to communi-
cate with Evil Spirits for an evil, or for any, purpose.
The contrasts here established seem on the surface perfectly
1 i am not suggesting that the traditional knowledge was of value, but that, as a fact, it
seems to have existed.
'4The Antiquity of Magical Rituals
clear. When we come, however, to compare the ceremonial
literature of the two classes, wee shall find that the distinction
is by no means so sharp as might be inferred from the defini-
tions. In the first place, so-called Theurgic Ceremonial, under
the pretence of White Magic, usually includes the Rites for
the invocation of Evil Spirits. Supposing that they are so
invoked 'for the enforced performance of works contrary to
their nature, the issue becomes_ complicated: at once, and White
Magic must then be defined as the attempt : to communicate
with Good or Evil Spirits for a good, or at least for an
innocent, purpose. . This, of course, still leaves a tolerably
clear distinction, though not one that I should admit, if I
admitted the practical side of the entire subject to anything
but unconditional condemnation. Yet the alternative between
a good and an innocent object contains all,the material for a
further confusion. It will be made 'clear as I proceed that
the purposes and ambitions of Magic are commonly very
childish, so that we must distinguish really between Black
and White Magic, not as between the essentially good and
evil, but as between that which is certainly evil and that
which may only be foolish. Nor does this exhaust the diffi-
culty. As will also be made evident in proceeding, White
Ceremonial Magic seems to admit of a number of intentions
which are objectionable, as well as many . that are frivolous.
Hence it must be inferred that there is no very sharp dis-
tinction between the two branches of the Art. It cannot be
said, even, that Black Magic is invariably and White Magic
occasionally evil. What is called Black Magic is by no means
diabolical invariably ; it is almost as much concerned with pre-
posterous and stupid processes as the White variety with those
of an accursed kind. Thus, the most which can be stated
is that the literature falls chiefly into two classes, one of
5,I
I
The Book of Ceremonial Magic
which usually terms itself Black, but that they overlap one
another.
In what perhaps it may be permissible to call the mind of
Magic, as distinct from the effects which are proposed by the
Rituals, there has been always a tolerable contrast between
the two branches corresponding to Magus and Sorcerer, and
the fact that the ceremonial literature tends to the confusion
of the distinction may perhaps only stamp it as,garbled. But
this is not to say that it has been tampered with in the sense
of having been perverted by editors. White Magic has not
usually been written down into Black ; Godtic Rituals have
not been written up in pseudo-celestial terms. They are, for
the most part, naturally composite, and it would be impossible
to separate their elements without modifying their structure .
Modern occultism has taken up the clear distinction and
developed it. Appealing to the secret traditional knowledge
behind the written word of Magic-to that unmanifested science
which it believes- to exist behind all science-and to the religion
behind all religion, as if the two were related or identical, it
affirms that the advanced occult life has been entered by two
classes of adepts, who have been sometimes fantastically dis-
ti,nguished as the Brothers of the Right and the Brothers of
the Left, transcendental good and transcendental evil being
specified as their respective ends, and in each case they are
something altogether different from what is understood con-
ventionally by either White or Black Magic. As might be
expected, the literature of the subject does not bear out this
development, but, by the terms of the proposition, this is
scarcely to be regarded as an objection. For the rest, if many
rumours and a few questionable revelations must lead us to
concede, within certain limits, that there may have been some
recrudescence of diabolism in more than one country of Europe,
i6
IThe Antiquity of Magical Rituals
some attempt at the present day to communicate formally with
the- Powers of Darkness, it must be said that this attempt
returns in its old likeness and not invested with the sublimi
ties atjd terrors of the modern view . Parisian Diabolism, for
example,' in so far as it may be admitted to exist, is the Black
Magic of the Grimoire and not the sovereign horror of the
Brothers of the Left Hand Path, wearing their iniquity like
an aureole, and deathless in spiritual evil. These enigmatical
personages are, however, the creation. of romance, as are also
their exalted, or at least purified, confreres. Between Rosi-
crucian initiates of astral processes and the amatores diaboli
there is indubitably the bond of union which arises from one
fact al n'y a pas desgees plus embetants que ces gees-la.
3. The Unprinted Literature of Ceremonial Magic
For the purposes of the present, inquiry it will be convenient
to consider the Rituals under the three heads of Transcendental,
Composite and Black, subject, as regards the first, to some
specific qualifications which will appear in the second chapter,
and subject, in respect of all, to the perfect understanding that
these three are one. So far as, may be possible, the antiquity
of individual Rituals will be determined in the course of their
examination, but as this inquiry is based, with a single exception
of undeniable importance, upon the printed literature, because
it is that only which has exercised a real influence, it may be
well, as a conclusion to this introductory part, to give some
information, regarding magical processes which have remained
in manuscript, and are to be found only, or can at least be
consulted only, in the public libraries of Europe. Almost
without exception, the source of their inspiration- is the work
mentioned in the preface, namely, The Key of Solomon, and
B
17The Book of Ceremonial 'Magi-c
they 'are consequently 'of later date. The Library of the
Arsenal at Paris has a reputation for being especiallArich in
Magical MSS., but there is also a large collection in the
British Museum which may be regarded as typical . There is
nothing of earlier date or more importance among -the French
treasures, and, to determine the question of antiquity in a few
words, there is nothing among our own that is much anterior
to the beginning of the fourteenth century.
The numerical strength of the treatises, late and early com-
bined, is in itself considerable, but, setting aside the codices
made use of by the English editor of The Key of Solomon,
the interest of which was exhausted long since by the appear-
ance of that work, there are only three small classes or
cycles to which an especial appeal attaches in connection with
the present inquiry. The first may be termed the group of
Honorius, comprising three MSS. ;- the second is that of the
Se her Raziel, of which there are two forms ; the third includes
the English codices of the Lemegelon. The chief MS. of the
first group is also one of the most ancient treatises dealing with
Magic in the library. This is Sloane 313, a Latin MS . on
vellum, in a bad state of preservation . The close writing and
abbreviations make it somewhat difficult to read. - It is in-
teresting, however, because it connects with the Grimoire of
Honorius, one of the most historical and notable Rituals of
Black Magic, being the work of some person bearing that
name. It belongs to the fourteenth century and has no title
or other determinate name, but it appears from the text that
it was understood to be the Sworn Book of Honorius. The
introduction or prologue to the work is obscurely worded in
the initial pages, but it seems to account for the condemnation
of magic by the prelates of the Church on the ground that
they have been deceived by demons. The result is the con-
18The Antiquity of Magical Rituals
vocation of all the " masters of. Magic," to the number of 811,
all of whom seem to have come out of Naples, Athens and a
place entitled Tholetus. Among these a species of spokesman
was chosen, whose name was Honorius, the son of Euclidus,
Master of the Thebans. 'He was deputed to work for the rest,
and he entered into counsel with s,n angel called Hochmel or
Hocroel, (? Hochmael),, and thereafter wrote seven volumes
of Magical Art, " giving the kernel to us and the shells to
others." From these books he seems afterwards to have
extracted ninety-three chapters, containing a summary of the
whole subject, and made them into a volume which " we term
the sacred or sworn book." In the meantime, the princes and
prelates, having burned " certain fables or trifles," concluded
that they had completely destroyed the art, and were therefore
pacified. The magicians, however, took an oath among them-
selves to preserve the masterpiece of Honorius in the most
secret and careful manner, making three copies at the most,
the possessor of any example being bound over to bury it
before his decease, or otherwise insure its ,interment in his
own grave, unless there were some trusty and worthy person
to whom it could` be transmitted. It is interesting to note
that this is the Law of Transmission in respect of Alchemy.
The important point about the MS. itself is that it fixes the
source of the mendacious tradition which ascribes a Grimoire
of Black Magic to a Pope of the name of Eonorius, as will
be seen at length later on. The Sworn Book is not, of course,
the Grimoire, but the existence and reputed authorship of the
one will enable us to understand the attribution of the other .
Honorius the sorcerer was identified with Honorius the Pope,
firstly by the confused mind of magical legend, and secondly
by conscious imposture, much after the same manner that
Raymond Lully, the " illuminated doctor" of Majorca, was
z9The Book of Ceremonial Magic
identified with Lully the alchemist, by tradition at the incep-
tion, and not long afterwards by the help of forged treatises.
The Sworn Book is in other respects remarkable, and has
been unaccountably overlooked by "writers on Ceremonial
Magic ; it may be taken to indicate that an association of
magicians was most probably in corporate existence during or
before the fourteenth century. While it is clearly of Christian
origin, it derives from the supposed works of Solomon, and
would appear to indicate that the Solomonic cycle was at that
time only in course of formation, as also that the earliest
elements approximate not to the Grand Clavicle, but to the
Little Key, otherwise, the Lemegeton. As to the operations con-
tained in the Sworn Book, they are those of White and Black
Magic, undiscriminated, without, however, any trace of the
conventional "dealing with the devil ." The MS. under notice
need not, of course, 'be regarded as the original as to this
there is no means of knowing. The British Museum possesses
also a later transcript, belonging to the sixteenth century, and
a most valuable English translation, written on vellum in beau-
tiful Gothic characters. It is referred, to the fifteenth century .'
The second group comprises two MSS., both in the Sloane
collection, and both containing, among other treatises, the im
portant and curious work attributed to Solomon under the title
of Sepher Raziel. That numbered 3826 belongs to. the sixteenth
century. It is an English translation of a Latin original which
in this form is unknown to myself ; the first line of the original
is usually given at the beginning of each section. It is divided
into seven books, and purports to have been sent to Solomon
by a prince of Babylon who was greater and more worshipful
than all men of his time, his name being Sameton, while
the two. wise men who brought. it were called Kamazan and
Zazant. The Latin title of the treatise is said to be Angelus
20The Antiquity of Magical Rituals
Magnns Secreti Creatorxs ; it was the first book after Adam,'
was written in the language of Chaldea and afterwards was
translated into Hebrew. It is a noticeable fact that in this
work the first section is entitled Clavis, and if we may regard
the Sepher Raziel as antedating the Clavicul<e, it explains why
a Key was attributed to Solomon. The Clavis in question is,
however, concerned with the magical influences of the stars,
without which we can effect nothing." The second book is
called Ala; it treats of the virtues of stones, herbs and beasts.
The third is Tractatus Thymiamatum, the use of which term
connects it with the Sworn Book of Honorius ; it treats of suf
fumigations. 'The fourth sets out the times of the year, day
and night which are disposed to operation ; the fifth embodies
the laws regarding lustrations and abstinence ; while the sixth,
called Samaim, expounds the nature of the heavens, of the angels
and of the operations of each. The seventh and last book
is concerned with the virtues of names. A Latin version of the
Sej5her Raziel occurs in Sloane MS. 3853, ascribed to the same
period. It differs from the former in several considerable re-
spects, being also much shorter and full of rare magical symbols.
The MSS. of the third group are all in English, and all of
late date.
Sloane 2731 is a very neat MS., begun on January io, 1676,
and containing the entire Lemegeton, or Lesser Key of Solomon,
in English. Some account _of this celebrated work, which has
so unaccountably escaped publication, will be found in the
third chapter of this part. Sloane 3648 is another manuscript
of the Lemegeton, also in English, together with the firs
Notoria, a book of invocations and prayers attributed to
Solomon, of which there are many examples extant in England
and on the Continent.' It is a work which connects with Magic
i The printed English translation of Robert Turner is well known to collectors.
21
iThe- Book of' Ceremonial Magic
without being itself magical, and, in- fact, stands in much the
same relation to the Key or Clavicle as the Enchiridion of Poj5e
Leo to the Isagoge of the Arbalel. Lastly, the same MS. con-
tains the Magical Archidoxies of Paracelsus, but the version
seems to be quite distinct from the treatise so entitled in the
Geneva folio, containing the collected writings of the German
,adept.' In either case, it is not a work of Ceremonial Magic,
its title notwithstanding. Sloane 3805 is a quarto MS., chiefly
alchemical and medical, comprising a translation of the forged
epistles of Sendivogius, and towards the end the Lemegeton,
started by the writer apparently with the intention of tran-
scribing all the works attributed to Solomon under the heading
of this angelic name. It breaks off, however, at the end . of
the offices of the thirteenth spirit belonging to the Infernal
Hierarchy.
It should be added that the three groups, contain materials
which are common to all. The independent treatises which
follow the Sej5her Raziel in Sloane 3826 extract matter from
the Sworn Book, while that entitled Liber Lunte, concerning
the intelligences of the mansions of the moon, the squares of
the planets, their seals, rings and so forth-which, by the
way, seems in this form unknown to modern critics-has given
material to other and later collections.
The unprinted literature of Ceremonial Magic offers a con-
siderable field to research, though even in the historical or
bibliographical interest it is questionable whether it would repay
the pains, unless research of all kinds whatsoever is to be re-
garded as its own reward. Among the miscellaneous MSS. in
the British Museum, it is here only necessary to notice two,
1 The genuineArchidoxies are concerned with the alchenmical separation of elements, with
transcendental Medicine and the Quintessence, with Magisteries and Elixirs. The first com-
plete rendering is in The Hermetic and Alchemical Writings of Paracelsus, edited by myself,
2 vols. 4to, 1894.
22The Antiquity of Magical Rituals
as they contain materials connected with the present design.
Sloane 3884 includes a process in Necromancy-how to call
the ghost of a dead body-the invocation of spirits into a
crystal-the form for summoning spirits within the circle-and
a method of exorcism in the Tuscan language,-all impudently
attributed to the author of the Nullity ofMagic-that is to say,
Roger Bacon. In the second part of my present work a special
chapter is devoted to Infernal Necromancy, and the MS. here
mentioned will be useful for purposes of reference . Sloane
3850 is.a MS. of the seventeenth century, which contains tran-
scripts from the fourth book of Cornelius Agrippa and from the
Heplameron of Peter de Abano in Latin. There is also a
Good and Proved Exj5erimenl for evocation, which uses the
Paler, Ave, Credo and Litany of the Saints as magical formulae.
Finally, there are processes, mostly in Latin, but some in
English, for the discovery of things lost, the recovery of things
stolen, for the spirits of the dead who cannot rest in their graves,
and for persons possessed by evil spirits. The treatise De,
Novem Candariis Salomonis, containing curious figures and
sigils, deserves particular mention, as this again seems unknown
to students. Its attribution notwithstanding, it is the work of
a Catholic writer.
I'll_"W
THE SACRED URH3VS OR BASIJ.ISK
231
CHAPTER II
EChe IRituaio of €ranocenbental sir, agic
§ i. The Arbatel of Magic
HE term transcendental must not be interpreted in any
T
exalted or philosophical sense when it is used, informally
and conventionally enough, in such a connection as the
present. It has not been adopted because it is tolerably appro-
priate, but rather in the absence of a better word of definition
in respect of the claim implied, and because also it has been_
previously admitted in the same connection. It is perhaps
loosely equivalent to the Haute Magie of Eliphas Levi, which
I have rendered Transcendental Magic, not as a satisfactory
equivalent but because there is no current or admitted expres-
sion which corresponds more closely. When due allowance
has been made for the conceptions which may be presumed to
underlie the subject, it must be said that in Ceremonial Magic
there is as much and as little Transcendentalism as in the
phenomena of modern mediumship. Whatever might be claimed
for the intelligences with whom communication is sought to be
established, they reveal themselves by their offices, which are
either fantasic or frivolous. In such an association it should be
understood that material interests are to be included in the
second class ; in the first would be comprised those which are
outside realisation by reason of their extravagance, while at the
same time they are unconnected with spiritual aspiration.
Supposing that it were an exact science, there would be
24The Rituals of Transcendental Magic
nothing in Practical Magic `which interlinks, for example, with
a true or with any Mystic Purpose.' Hence, by Rituals of
Transcendental Magic there must_ not be understood a col-
lection of processes by which the Divine in Man is sought to
be united with the Divine in the Universe. The works of St.
John of the Cross, of Ruysbroeck, of Eckart, of Molinos, of
Saint-Martin, even the Imitation of St, Thomas a Kempis-
these contain the grand processes of true Transcendental Magic,
y
were it other than desecration to apply a term which is_ worse
than ridiculous to treasures which would be disparaged by
the association. Here there must be understood simply those
occult processes and that so-called Theurgic Ceremonial, in
which there is at least no explicit connection with Black Magic,
which 'not only contain no dealings with evil spirits for evil
purposes, but appear to eschew all such communication, for
what purpose soever. An exception-which, properly under-
stood, is, however, an exception only on the surface-should be
made in favour of the procedure adopted by the, Church for
the expulsion of diabolical powers from persons in the flesh,
not because the phenomena of possession are necessarily other
than pathological, even in those cases which would appear to
be marked and obstinate, but because, on the terms of the
ecclesiastical assumption, the Rite of Exorcism is a far more
exalted Rite than anything which obtains in Transcendental
Magic. In this matter, as in many other cases of much higher
importance, no tolerable justice has been done to the position
of the Catholic Church. It should' be observed in addition,
that while Ceremonial Magic is concerned with a variety of
1 By Practical, Magic is here intended not certain forms of the putative transcendent science
said to be imparted by occult initiation, and to be totally distinct from childish attempts to
discover hidden treasure, to obtain the ring of invisibility, and so forth; the reference is in-
tended solely to the Magic of the Ceremonial Literature. I believe that the exotic form
belongs to the deeps rather than the heights because it is phenomenal procedure, but the
distinction-which I have discussed otherwise-is, advisable to note here.
25The Book, of Ceremonial Magic ."
processes which may obviously tend to produce in unwary
operators the phenomena which characterise possession, there
is scarcely a single process in any one of the Rituals-White or
Black, Composite or Transcendental-which makes any pre-
tence of relieving persons so afflicted.' There is, therefore, no
reason to doubt on which side of hallucination the apparatus of
the Rituals has been developed, and the sympathies of reason-
able students will be with the honourable institution which
condemned the practices and sought to liberate the victims,
leaving possession itself as an
open question, and in this sense
as a side issue.
Even with the qualification
which I have registered, the
putative Transcendental Rituals
are exceedingly few. There
is- I. The Enchiridion of
Pope Leo the Third. 2. The
Arbatel of Magic. 3. The
Celestial Magic of an anony
mous German occultist, entitled
Theoso. hia Pneumatica, which
TALISMAN OF ARBATEL
must be held to represent and
to save enumeration of one or two similar handbooks. Of
these, the first is included among the Rituals of Ceremonial
Magic by the invincible ignorance of almost every person
who has undertaken to class it. Onn the other hand, the
I There are, of course, innumerable processes for destroying spells and enchantments;among
them one occasionally meets with an exorcism to be used in a case of possession . There is one
in the edition of the Grimoire of Honoriuspublished at Rome in I76o. It is supposed to be
efficacious both for men and animals afflicted by Satan. In the edition of I8oo there is another
process, which prescribes holy water for aspersion, in the case of a human being, and, in that
of an animal, salt exorcised with blood drawn from the bewitched creature. See also my
remarks on Sloane MS. 3884-
26The Rituals of Transcendental Magic
third borrows all its importance from the second, in which,
upon both counts, the interest evidently centres. As regards
its origin, its authorship, and even its scope, there is, how-
ever, considerable mystery. Within my own knowledge,
there are no copies in manuscript, or none at least which are
prior to the end of` the sixteenth century. I t appeared in
a tiny volume at Basle and bore the date 1575.' Back-dating
and imputed authorship are . the two crying bibliographical sins
of Grimoires and magical handbooks, and the antiquity of the
Arbatel rests under a certain suspicion on account of its literary
connections ; at the same time it would require the knowledge
of an expert in typography to pronounce certainly on the
reliability of the date indicated. The text is in Latin, but
there is a slender possibility in favour of its being the work
of an Italian.2 It makes a reference to Theophrastic Magic,
which.,indicates the influence of Paracelsus, and, although it is
difficult to speak with any certainty, seems to hint at an early
period of that influence, the period, in fact, of Benedictus Figulus,
slightly antedating Rosicrucian enthusiasm, and thus accounting
for the omission of all Rosicrucian references, which, in view
both of matter and manner, might have been irresistibly expected
had the work been posterior to the year 161o.
It should be observed that the Arbalel has no connection
with the cycle, hereinafter considered, of the Keys of Solomon,
1 Arbatel, De Magia Veterum, Basileae, 1575. The mottoes on the title are Sum'num
Sapientia Stadium and In omnibus consule Dominum, et nihil cogites, dicas, facias, quad tibi
Deusnonconsuluerit.
s The possibility is warranted by references in the 3oth and 3rst Aphorisms to some obscure
points of Italian history. It is said that bya judgment of the Magicians it was decreed that
no Italian should reign over the kingdom of Naples ; now the monarch at the time was an
Italian, and he was dethroned in due' course. To restore the national dynasty the decree must
be annulled by those who made it. A magician of greater power might be able to enforce
this, and also the restitution of a certain Book, jewel and Magic Horn, of which the Treasury
of Magic had been despoiled. The mastery of the whole world would pass into the hands of
their possessor.
27The Book of Ceremonial Magic
and it is permeated with Christian ideas . The authorship is
completely unknown. Arbatel, or $Nnyz-1K, is probably not an
assumed name, but indicative of an instructing` or revealing
Angel. The use of this Hebrew term is, however, peculiar
in connection with the fact that the references to the Old
Testament are few and unimportant, while the sayings of
Christ, and the New Testament narrative generally, are sub-
jects of continual citation. Solomon, moreover, is not men-
tioned in the frequent enumerations of adepts and wise men.
So far concerning the origin, authorship and date of the
book. It remains to say that it is incomplete. Of the nine
"Tomes" into which it purports to be divided, we possess
only one. It is not unlikely that the rest were never written,
because the author has left us a plan of his entire proposal,
and it is evident that his first book more than once overlaps
what should have followed. As it stands, the 4rbatel of
Magic is concerned with the most general precepts of Magical
Arts-in other words, with the Institutions. It is entitled
Jsagoge, which means essential or fundamental instruction,
The missing books are those of Microcosmical Magic, or
Spiritual Wisdom ; Olympic Magic, that is, the evocation of
the Spirits of Olympus ; Hesiodiacal and Homeric Magic, being
the operations of Caco-daimones ; Roman or Sibylline Magic,
concerning Tutelary Spirits ; Pythagorical Magic, dealing with
the Genii of the Arts ; the Magic of Apollonius, giving power
over the enemies of mankind ; Hermetic or Egyptian Magic ;
and that, finally, which depends solely on the Word of God
and is called Prophetical Magic.
It is an open question whether all of these books could have
been completed without a proportion of that dangerous instruc-
tion which makes for open Black Magic. The Isagoge, however,
must be exempted in part from such charge ; the Seven Septen-
28The Rituals of Transcendental Magic
aries of aphorisms of which it consists contain many moral and
spiritual exhortations, which, if they are not exactly unhackneyed,
are on the surface quite 'unexceptionable, and might indeed
rank among the more exalted of their kind, were it not for
the art with which they are connected. The initial groups of
these aphorisms serve to introduce the Ritual of the Olympic
Spirits, dwelling in the firmament and in the stars of the
firmament, between whom the government of the world is
distributed. There are 196 1 Olympic Provinces in the entire
universe, so that Arairon has 49, Bethor 42, Phaleg 35, Och
28, Hagith 2I,' Ophiel 14, and Phul 7. These Provinces are
termed visible, but even as the Seven Sej5tenaries o,f Arbatel
cover the whole ground of reputed Transcendental Magic, so
these seven successive multiples of the same mystical number
may most -probably be taken to indicate powers and offices .
It is further said that the Olympic Spirits rule alternately,
each for 490 years, which would be mere confusion were
separate assemblages of spheres permanently assigned to
them.
The powers possessed by these Intelligences are very
curiously set forth. They rule naturally over certain depart-
ments and operations of the material world, but outside these
departments they perform the same operations magically. Thus
Oth, the prince of Solar things, presides over the preparation
or development of gold naturally in the veins of the earth-that
is to say, he is the Mineralogist in ChiefofNature ; he presides
also over the quicker preparation of the same metal by means
of chemical art-that is, he is the Prince of Alchemists ; and,
finally, he makes gold in a moment by Magic. It is in this way
i The original edition of the-.4rbatelreads 186, and ascribes 32 provinces to Bethor, which
breaks the progression of the septenary and is probably a printer's mistake. It is followed,
however, by the English and German translators.
29The Book of Ceremonial Magic
that Ceremonial Magic connects with while it assumes to tran-
scend Hermetic Art.'
There is another curious instruction, with regard to the names
and characters of the Spirits. In opposition to much of the
traditional doctrine of Magic, it is affirmed that there is no power
in the figure of any character or in the pronunciation of any
name, except in so far as there is a virtue or office ordained by
God to both. The names, moreover, are not definite, final or
real names, whence they differ with different writers accordingly
as these have received them. The only effectual names are
those which are delivered to an operator by the Spirits them-
selves, and even then their efficacy seldom endures beyond forty
years. It is, therefore, better for the student, says the Arbatel,
to work only by the offices of the Spirits, without their names ;
should he be pre-ordained to attain the Art of Magic, the other
parts of that Art will offer themselves of their own accord .
The sources of occult wisdom, it proceeds, are, firstly, in
God ; secondly, in spiritual essences-that is to say, the
Angelical Hierarchy ; thirdly, in corporeal creatures, the re-
ference being probably to the signatura rerum of Paracelsus ;
fourthly, in 'Nature-that is to say, in a knowledge of the secret
virtues of natural things, as, for example, herbs and precious
stones ; fifthly, but after a long interval, in the apostate spirits
reserved to the last judgment ; 2 sixthly, in the administers of
punishment in hell, which seems to connect with the classical
conception of avenging infernal gods ; seventhly, in the people
of the elements, that is, the Salamanders, Sylphs, Undines and
Gnomes or Pigmies.
1 It was also by the magical hypothesis a gift from heaven, brought down by the.Angel
Uriel.
s This reference, taken in connection with the matters proposed to be treated in the,seventh
book, points conclusively to the intention of including the governmen;j of Evil Spirits in the
scheme of the Arbatel.
30The Rituals of Transcendental Magic
The secrets deriving from - these sources range from the
highest achievements of reputed mystical science' to the bour-
geois ambitions of daily life, from the Regeneration of Enoch
and the Knowledge of God, Christ- and His Holy Spirit-
wherein is the perfection of the Microcosm-to the- attainment
of honours and dignities, the ingathering of much money, the
foundation of a family, good fortune in mercantile pursuits, and
successful housewifery both in town and country . The pro-
longation of life, the transmutation of metals and the talismanic
cure of all diseases, with other " paradoxes of the highest
science," also figure in the list .
Meditation, inward contemplation and the love of God are
the chief aids to the acquisition of Magical Art, together with
great faith, strict taciturnity and even justice in the things of
daily life. Finally, a true magician is brought forth as such
from his mother's womb; others who assume the function will
be unhappy.2
The powers and offices of the Seven Olympic Spirits are
as follows : ARATRON governs those
things which are ascribed astrologi-
cally to Saturn. He can convert any
living organism, plant or animal into
stone, and that in a moment of time ;
he can also change coals into treasure
and treasure into coals ; he gives
THE CHARACTER OF ARATRON
familiars and reconciles subterranean
spirits to men ; he teaches Alchemy, Magic and Medicine,
1 It should be observed that the mystical achievements are barely mentioned, and that their
attainment is imparted by a spirit possessing the office, which is conclusive, as I need not point
out, respecting the use of the term. The author of theArbatel, however, considers it good
enough Mysticism, as does Eliphas Ldvi, to cause oneself "to be worshipped as a god," in
virtue of the sigil ofOch.
s When his highest authorities disagree, the occult student is liable to get at the truth, and
will find occasionally that it is not at either end, nor yet in the middle. It is edifying to com-
3IThe Book of Ceremonial Magic
imparts the secret of invisibility, makes the barren fruitful
and, lastly, confers long life. He should be invoked on a
Saturday, in the first hour of the day,' making use of his
characted, given and confirmed by himself.'
The affairs of Jupiter are administered by BETHOR, who
responds quickly when called. The person dignified by his
character may be exalted to illus-
trious positions and may obtain large
treasures. He reconciles the Spirits
of the Air to' man, so that they will,
give true answers, transport precious
stones and compose medicines hav-
THE CHARACTER OF BETHOR
ing miraculous effects. $ETHOR also
grants familiars of the firmament, and can prolong life to seven
hundred years, subject to the will of God, which qualification
imparts an air of caution.
pare this express statement of a ruling ceremonial process with another, not less express, which
we owe to the reconstruction of all the processes and the reputed recoverer of the true practice
of Magic. "Furthermore, certain physical organisations are better adapted than others for the
revelations of the occult world; there are sensitive and sympathetic natures, with whom intuition
in the astral light is, so to speak, inborn ; certain afflictions and certain complaints can modify
the nervous system, and, independently of the concurrence of the wil}, may convert it into a
divinatory apparatus of less or more perfection; but these phenomena are exceptional, and
generally magical power should, and can, be acquired by perseverance and labour."-"Doctrine 4
and Ritual of Transcendent Magic," by Eliphas L€vi, English translation by A. E. Waite,
p. 196. In this case the genius of enlightened differentiation rests entirely upon the later adept .
As a matter of fact, occult writers have always recognised that there is the Natural Magician
and the Magician according to Art. Yet sanctum invenit, vel sanctum facit has been said of
Magic, and so also magical knowledge means magical power; where it does not find it, it brings
it. I speak, of course, ex kypothesi. But such knowledge is not of Rituals or Grimoires, of
Arbatelor another, nor is the word Magic, nor is the process practical in respect of an external
procedure. That which is termed Occultism is the art of desecrating the inmost Sanctuary.
1 See Part ii. c. 6.
s It should be understood that the characters of the so-calldd Olympic Spirits are, so to
speak, their official seals and are not to be confused with the images attributed to the planets.
These were of various kinds in correspondence with the variety of influences and were worn as
talismans or charms.
32The Ritualss of Transcendental Magic
PHALEG governs the things IL11 ,
that are attributed to Mars.
The person who possesses his
character is raised by him to great
honour in military affairs.
THE CHARACTER OF PHALEG
Solar interests are administered by OcH, who prolongs life
to six hundred years, with perfect health"
therein. He imparts great. wisdom, gives
excellent (familiar) spirits, composes per-
fect medicines, converts any - substance
- into the purest of metals, or into precious
stones ; he also bestows gold and a purse,
quaintly described by the English trans-
THE CHARACTER OF OCH
lator of the Arbatel as " springing with
gold." He causes the possessor of his character to be wor-
shipped as a god by the kings of the whole world.
The government of Venereal con-
cerns is entrusted to HAGITH, and
the person possessing his character
is adorned with all-beauty. He con-
verts copper into gold in a moment
and gold instantaneously into copper ;
THE CHARACTER OF HAGITH
he also gives faithful serving spirits.
OPHIEL is the ruler of those things W_
which are attributed to Mercury ; he
AA
gives familiar spirits, teaches all arts,
and enables the possessor of his char-
acter to change quicksilver immediately IWAA
into the Philosopher's Stone.
THE CHARACTER OF OPHIEL
33 CThe Book of Ceremonial Magic
Lunary concerns are under the government of PHUL, who
truly transmutes all metals into silver, heals dropsy and
provides Spirits of the Water, who serve men
in a corporal and visible form ; he also pro-
longs life to three hundred years.
Legions of inferior spirits are commanded by
each of the Governors, who also have Kings,
Princes, Presidents, Dukes and Ministers ruling
under them. Ceremonial Magic usually adminis-
ters the hierarchies upon a colossal scale. The
invocation of the Governors is simple. It is
THE CHARACTER performed in the day and hour of the planet
OF PHIIL
which is in correspondence with the Olympic
Intelligence by means of the following :-
PRAYER
0 Eternal and Omnipotent God; Who hast ordained the
whole creation for Thy Praise and Thy glory, as also for the
salvation of man, I beseech Thee to send Thy Spirit N., of
the Solar Race, that he may instruct me concerning those
things about which I design to ask him [or-that he may bring
me medicine against the dropsy, &c.]. Nevertheless, not my
will, but Thine be done, through Jesus Christ, Thine only-
begotten Son, Who is our Lord. Amen.
Unless the Spirit, in the words of Robert Turner, be
familiarly addicted" to the operator, he should not be detained
above one hour, and should in either case be "licensed to
depart " as follows :-
TThhiiss is merely a typical form subject to variations according to the spirit who is evoked
34
iThe Rituals of Transcendental Magic:
THE DISCHARGE
Forasmuch as thou camest in Peace and quietness, having
also answered unto my petitions, I give thanks unto God, in
Whose Name thou camest. Now mayst thou depart in peace
unto thine own order ; but return unto me again, when I shall
call thee by thy name, or by thine order, or by thine office, which
is granted from the Creator. Amen. [Then add :] Be not
rash with thy mouth, and let not thine heart be hasty to utter
anything before God : for God is in heaven, and thou art upon
earth; therefore let thy words be few. For a dream cometh
through the multitude of business, and a fool's voice is known
by multitude of words.-Eccles. V. 3, 4.
§ 2. Theosophia Pneumatica
I n the year 1686, the Arbatel was translated into German,
and in the same year-possibly in the same volume-appeared,
also in German, a work entitled The Little Keys of Solomon
or Theosophia Pneumatica.1 There are no examples of these
editions in the British Museum, and inquiry has failed to elicit
any particulars concerning them . Both are reprinted, together
with other specimens of Ancient,Magical Literature, to illustrate
the Faust legend, in the third volume of Scheible's Das
Kloster.2 The translation of the Arbatel makes no reference
to the previous edition in Latin, and Theosophia Pneumatica
nowhere states that it is an adaptation of the earlier work.
The ,attribution to Solomon is, of course, wholly contrary to
I Clavicul¢ Salovnonis, vel Theosephia Auumatica.
2 J. Scheible,Das Klolter. Weltlichand Geisttich. Deist_ aus der 4ltern Deutschen Y.olks
Literatur, 12 vole., Stnttgsrt, 1845-49.
35The _Book of Ceremonial Magic
the spirit of the Ritual, and betrays so far the hand of
ignorance.
The adapter had, however, been subject to other occult ,
influences besides the Arbatel. He applies the term Talmid
to the magical aspirant, and this is not used by the original.
The adaptation has been well executed and makes for addi-
tional clearness. The transcendental portions are slightly
accentuated ; it is said in one place that the exaltation of
prayer is the end of the whole Mystery, and that such exalta-
tion will never be denied to the true seeker, who is recom-
mended on no account to undervalue his own prayers. This
is a better presentation of the theory than the corresponding
passage in the Arbatel itself. There is also an addendum on
Transcendental Medicine, which, so far as can be known, is
original, and it is as curious as anything in the literature with
which we are dealing.'
1 There is a curious history attaching to this word, but it can be elucidated only by a
Hebrew scholar. It seems to be of late introduction, though it derives from the verbto learn.
Ithas been said to represent a stage of initiation in certain occult societies of Islfm.
s As it is unlikely that Theosophia Pneumatica will ever be printed in English, it may be
well to give a summary of its appendix, that is to say, of the only section of this work which
differs generically from the Arbatel. Affirming that all things are threefold, from the Divine
Triad of Father, Son and Holy Ghost, to man, who is composed of the fleshly body, the sensi-
tive soul and the rational spirit, it defines the human principles as follows : The body is of
earth ; the sensitive soul is of the four elements, but derives through the stars, and is the'seat
of understanding and genius for arts and sciences ; the rational spirit is from God absolutely ;
the sphere of its activity is celestial and divine, and divine inspiration and influence pass through
it to the material body. The body is a house wherein soul and spirit abide and perform their
functions, having been married therein by God. At the same time, they strive daily with one
another, till the spirit overcomes the soul, and thus attains regeneration . There are two kinds
of death-that which results from the destruction of vital physical organs by disease or injury,
and that which results from the destruction of the sensitive soul by envenomed astral influences.
Physical disintegration and flight of the divine spirit follow in either case. The spirit may also
be recalled by the direct action of the will of God, without disease or injury. Man is therefore
poised upon three pillars ; if one of them fall or break, the man dies. He should preserve and
embalm his body against infectious diseases, for the living organism can be embalmed better
than a corpse. He should also combat the venomous influences of baleful stars, for Elohim
has gifted men with the power to compose characters that will destroy such influences . -It is
impossible, however, to cure those diseases with which God in His unsearchable compassion
may Himself scourge mankind ; vain are the best medicines and vain the highestarcana, vain
36ad 0
~a.e~e Q
O.ad ~& YMA i / ,
cA
tZV7$~o
.r
PLATE II
THE ANGELS AND OLYMPIC SPIRITS OF THE SILVER PLANETSIThe Rituals of Transcendental Magic
§ 3. The Enchiridion ofPoj5e Leo
We come now to the Enchiridion of Pofte Leo III., which,
as already indicated, is not a book of Ceremonial Magic ; it is
necessary, however, to include it in this notice, and to, analyse
it at some length, so as to establish its true character. Mis-
conceptions and mistakes upon a subject so obscure as Magical
Rituals are, speaking generally, excusable enough, but in this
case they are found where they are not excusable, namely,
among those persons who have undertaken to give account of
the work. Catholic-bibliographers of the occult sciences, or
at least the anonymous author of the occult encyclopaedia in
Migne's great series, are very angry at the pontifical attribution,
and stigmatise the Enchiridion as an infamous storehouse of
Black Magic. L`liphas Levi, who may possibly have read it-
because occasionally he seems to have glanced at his authors-
magnifies its occult importance by stating that it has never
been printed with' its true figures . In the absence of all
evidence on this point, it is impossible to entertain it seriously.
The Enchiridion is assuredly not a book of Black Magic, nor
does it lend itself to the introduction of other figures than those
which appear in it, and these are few and simple. Finally,
Alfred Maury, in La Magie et l'Astrologie daps t'Antiyuile
et au Moyen Age, describes the Enchiridion as a work on
Sorcery, bearing traces of Neo-Platonic, and even older,
influences. I-ie also evidently had not read it, and is a per-
isp. ex. uxitorn.,vain is the potentaurum,vain thespiritus auri, vain thequinta essentia; Azoth
itself is useless; thelapisphilosophorum is made void. The skilled physician will immediately
discover such a ease in a patient. All other diseases, whether deriving from the planets, from
the natural corruption of the earth or from neglect, may be cured by natural remedies-by
herbs, balms, spices, oils, metals or preparations of Alchemy. When natural diseases become
incurable, it is through the ignorance or in docility of man. This Appendix of Theosophia
PMCumatica not only indicates the influence but reproduces the terminology of Paracelsus.
39The Book of Ceremonial Magic
sonage of sufficient consequence to deserve severe censure for
following such an evil principle of criticism.
The legend of the Enchiridion is as follows. When Char-
lemagne was leaving Rome after his coronation by Leo III.,
that pontiff presented him with a memorial of the visit in the
shape of a collection of prayers, to which wonderful virtues
were attributed. Whosoever bore 'the little work upon his
person with the respect due to Holy Scripture, who also recited
it daily to the honour of God, would never be overcome by
his enemies, would pass unscathed through all perils, and the
Divine protection would abide with him to , the end of his days.
These things took place in the year 800. In the year 1523
the Enchiridion is supposed to have been printed at Rome for
the first time. Thus broadly outlined, there is nothing in this
legend to offend possibility or to raise very serious objection
to the authorship. The reputed connection with occult science
would indeed seem the chief presumption against it, because
there never was a literature so founded in forgery as that of
Magic, except the sister science of physical Alchemy. When
we come, however, to examine the work at first hand, the case
against it assumes a different aspect, and it is condemned out
of its own mouth. While it is not a Ritual of Magic, it is
also certainly not a simple collection of devotions designed to
fortify the person making use of them against dangers of body
and soul by the operation of Divine Grace ; it is rather a
collection of charms cast in the form of prayers, and is quite
opposed in its spirit to the devotional spirit of the Church ;
furthermore, it is concerned with worldly advantages far more
than with those of a spiritual kind. The work opens with
a characteristic stultification in respect of its own claim, by
pointing out that of all the sovereign princes of past ages there
was none more fortunate than Charlemagne, and the source
40The Rituals of Transcendental Magic
of his, great prosperity is acknowledged by him in a letter of
thanks addressed to Pope Leo, the original of which, it is
affirmed, may still be seen in the Library of the Vatican, written
with the monarch's own hand. He states therein that since
his reception of a little volume entitled Enchiridion, filled with
special prayers and mysterious figures, sent, by His Holiness
as a precious gift, he has never ceased to be fortunate, and that
of all things in the universe which are capable of harming man,
not one has shewn any malignity against him, in gratitude for
which he proposes to devote himself and all that is his to the
service of his benefactor. The letter is in Latin ; the monarch
styles himself Carolus Magnus, which appears highly unlikely,
and he terms the pontiff Summus Antisli Mm Anlistes, but this
is not in itself improbable, as the Papal claim to Episcopal
supremacy was fully developed at the beginning of the ninth
century.
It is needless to say that there is no such document pre-
served in the Vatican Library ; furthermore, there are no
letters of Charlemagne extant, and, despite the encouragement
he gave to men of learning and the Academy mentioned by
Alcuin, it is not at all certain that he could either read or write.
Lastly, while it is quite true that his empire included Germany,
as it did also Holland, Belgium,, Switzerland and part of Italy,
after his coronation it is much more probable that he would
have styled himself Emperor of the Romans. There is, in
fact, no colourable pretence of genuineness about the so-called
autograph letter, or to be precise it betrays itself-as I have
indeed suggested already.
This fact being established, we may proceed to the con-
sideration of the alleged date of publication-Rome, 1523.
This edition is mentioned by Pierre Christian in his Hisloire
de la Magie, and he, defends the authenticity of the Enchiridion
41The Book of Ceremonial Magic
on the ground, among others, that it passed unchallenged in
the Eternal City during such a pontificate as that of Clement
VII. A second edition is said to have been printed at Rome
in 16o6 ; between 1584 and 033 it appeared four times at
Lyons and once at Mayence. In 166o it was published for
the last time at Rome. Unfortunately for the purposes of
this criticism, the examples of 1:633 and 166o have been alone
available. The first claims to `be nu0errime mendis omnibus
purgatum, but it has been evidently in the hands of a Grimoire
maker, and it appears to have been edited and extended in
the Grimoire interest.' This is certain, but it is impossible to
say how much beyond the Seven Mysterious Orisons connected
with the name of Pope Leo are to be found in the original, or
whether the original was antedated. Outside these Orisons
the modern accent of the work is unmistakable, and it is difficult
to understand how any instructed person, much less a biblio-
phile like M. Christian, could have been deceived by it . It is
certain, however, that when he approached the secret sciences,
their substitutes and their memorials in literature, he depended
more on his imagination than on his knowledge or research.
The work itself, as already said, is simply a collection of
religious charms, effectual against all the perils to which every
sort and condition of men may be made subject on land, on
water, from open and secret enemies, from the bites of wild
and rabid beasts, from poisons, from fire, from tempests.
While it thus ensures against evil, it gives happiness in domestic
matters and in the enterprises which contribute to prosperity
and to the pleasures of a contented life. The proviso is that
1 This appears more evidently in the last Roman edition, which pretends to be based on all
those 'which preceded it, including impressions published at Parma, Ancona and Frankfort
which are now generally unknown. The editor has, moreover, altered and rearranged, omitted
and added at choice. He has supplied also a Key to the whole work, which is a short process
for the government of evil spirits.
42The Rituals of . Transcendental Magic
"the instructions must be followed as accurately as human
weakness will allow." Fortunately they are more simple than
the Grimoires. When a copy of the book has been secured,
it must be placed in a small bag of new leather, so that it may
be kept clean. A vow must be made to carry it as far as
practicable on one's person, and to read with attentive devotion
at least one page daily. If a specific danger be apprehended,
a page suitable to its nature should be selected. Reading must
be done upon the knees, with the face turned to the east : " so
did Charlemagne invariably." Furthermore, works of piety
must be performed in honour of ,the celestial genii whose benign
influence it is desired to attract ; alms also must be given to
the poor, "as this is of all things most pleasing unto such spirits,
for thereby we become their coadjutors and friends, the economy
of the universe being committed to them by the Creator ."
Here we have the magical doctrine concerning planetary
intelligences which connects the Enchiridion with the Arbatd,
and the hint of " secondary deities " which connects it with
Trithemius.l
The In Principzo, or first chapter of the Gospel according
to St. John, is declared to be the, most potent of all the devo-
tions in the book, and it is to be, recited the most frequently.
The mysterious figures are said to have been extracted from
the rarest manuscripts which antiquity has committed to us,
and their virtue is not only highly efficacious, but' so easily
put in motion, that it is enough for this purpose to carry the
work reverently on one's person.µ " Experience will remove
any doubt which may be felt in this respect, while the scruples
which may be occasioned by the idea that there is Magic or
1 Joannis Tritemii, Abbatis Spanheymensis, De Septem Secundiis, id est, Intelligentlis, rive
Spiritibus, Orbes post Deum Moventibus, &c. Colonise, x567. The treatise is well known, or
at least much talked of, and this is the original edition, belongingto the date claimed for it.
43The Book of Ceremonial Magic
superstition herein will be banished by a slight exercise of
reason.
As to this latter point, it is said that a little reflection
upon the infinite number of secret sympathies and antipathies
found in different beings here below will explain how it is that
such figures may be in sympathy with the Celestial Intelligences
which govern this vast universe.
It will scarcely be necessary to observe that the doctrine of
sympathies and antipathies is the very essence of Natural Magic,
and connects it with the recondite branches. The mysterious
figures referred to were originally nine in number, and in most
cases recur several times. The most conspicuous is the
Labarum of Constantine and the Tau symbol, which Levi
connects with the Tarot.
The apparently unmeaning enumeration of various ,.Divine
Names i's a special characteristic of Ceremonial Magic, and
certainly makes the Enchiridion interlink with a cycle of
literature from which it is otherwise thinly distinct. There
is, indeed, little specific difference between the prayers which
incorporate them and the Invocations which swarm in the
Rituals. It may be added that the use of such Divine Names
is supported by a mendacious reference to the Angelical
Theology of Dionysius.
The prefatory matter ends at this point. The prose of the
Gospel of St. John follows, with versicles and a prayer. Next
come the Seven Penitential Psalms, with the Litany of the
Saints, after which are the Mysterious Prayers of Poj5e Leo,
followed by a multitude of others not less mysterious, and
prevailing against human fragility, and so forth. There are
prayers for voyages, prayers addressed to the Cross, and then
under the Tau symbol, commencing with the curious exclama-
tion, Per signum + Domini Tau, libera me, there follows a long
44The Rituals of Transcendental Magic
conjuration, as express as anything in Magic, designed to
prevent the petitioner from injury by any steel weapons what-
soever. Forming part of this ceremony is the pseudo-epistle
addressed by Jesus Christ to King Abgar, explaining why our
Saviour could not come Himself to that monarch, and pro-
mising to send His disciple Thaddeus when He had fulfilled
the work given Him by His Father. It goes on to say that
Christ has written it with His own hand, and that wheresoever
the recipient shall be, in house or field, by sea or stream, sive
in j5rcelio Paganorum seu Christianorum-such is the stulti-
fication thereof his enemy shall never prevail over him .'
The king received the epistle with many tears and prayers, all
which being duly described, the conjuration of the baculi, gladii,
lanceae, enses, cultelli, sagittee, claves,funes, et omnia alia genera
armorum, is continued.
As it is difficult to say where the original Enchiridion
actually begins, so it is uncertain where it ends. A variety
of miscellaneous prayers are, however, attributed to well-
known saints quite outside the Carlovingian period, and to
Innocent IV. and John XX., without prejudice to a further
orison of the great Pope Leo himself. Then come the °1 curious
secrets "-to conciliate and discover one's proper genius, to
become invulnerable, to prevent a gun from going off, to
behold a future husband or wife, all effected by means of
formal prayers-a kind of royal road to the chief ends of
Magic, without apparently exceeding the devotional discipline
of the Church.
To complete the analysis of this curious collection, its most
important practical part is here added, namely :_
1 For this legend, see Fabricius, Cod. Apoc. N. T„ I., p. 317.
45The Book of Ceremonial Magic
4. The Seven Mysterious Orisons
SUNDAY
Pater noster, &c. Deliver me, 0 Lord, I beseech. Thee,
me even, thy creature, N., from all evils past, present and to
come, whether of body or soul ; grant me peace and health
in Thy goodness ; incline favourably unto me, Thy creature,
by the intercession of the Blessed Virgin Mary and of Thy
holy apostles, Peter, Paul, Andrew and of all the saints. Vouch-
safe peace unto Thy creature, and health during all my life,
so that, strengthened by the mainstay of Thy mercy, I may never
be the slave of sin, nor go in fear of any trouble, through the
same Jesus Christ Thy Son, our Saviour, Who, being truly
God, liveth and reigneth in the unity of the Holy Spirit for ever
and ever, Amen. May the Peace of the Lord be always with
me, Amen. May that peace, 0 Lord, which Thou didst leave
to Thy disciples abide ever with power in my heart, standing
always between' me and my enemies, both visible and invisible,
Amen. May the Peace of the Lord, His countenance, His body,
His blood, assist, console and protect me, Thy creature, N.,
in my soul and my body, Amen . Lamb of God, Who didst
deign to be born of the Virgin Mary, Who didst cleanse the
world from its sins upon the Cross, have pity on my soul and
my body. 0 Christ, Lamb of God-, immolated for the salvation
of the world, have pity on my soul and my body. Lamb of
God, by Whom all the faithful are saved, give unto me Thy peace,
to remain with mefor ever, both in this life and that which is
to come, Amen.
MONDAY
0 great God, by Whom all things have been set free, deliver .
me also from all evil. 0 great God, Who hast granted Thy
46r
The Rituals of 'Transcendental Magic
consolation unto all beings, grant it even unto me. 0 great
God, Who bast succoured and assisted all things, aid me also;
succour me in all my necessities and miseries, my enterprises
and dangers ; deliver me from all the hindrances and snares
of my 'enemies, both visible and invisible, in the Name of the
Father Who created the whole world )ji, in the Name of the Son
Who hath redeemed it 111, in the name of the Holy. Ghost Who
hath fuflled the entire law in its perfection. I cast myself
utterly into Thine arms, and place myself unreservedly under
Thy holy protection, Amen. May the blessing of God the
Father Almighty, of the Son and of the Holy Ghost, be always
with me l, Amen. May the blessing of God the Father, Who
by His only Wo,d hath made all things, be with me for ever q1,
Amen. May the blessing of our Lord Jesus Christ, Son of
the great living God, be with me for ever )14, Amen. May the
blessing and Seven Gifts ofthe Holy Spirit be with me for ever ,
Amen. May the blessing of the Virgin Mary, and of her Son,
be with me for ever, Amen .
TUESDAY
May the blessing and consecration of the bread and of the .
wine, which our Lord Jesus Christ made when He gave them
to His disciples and said unto them : Take and eat ye all of this,
far this is My body which shall be delivered for you, in remem-
brance of Me and for the remission of all sins-be with me for
ever 1ji. May the blessing of the Holy Angels, Archangels,
Virtues, Powers, Thrones, Dominations, Cherubim and Seraphim,
be with me for ever I , Amen. May the blessing ofthe patriarchs
and prophets, apostles, martyrs, confessors, virgins, and of all
the' saints of God,' be with me for _ever 111, Amen. May the
blessing of all the heavens of God be with me for ever )!B, Amen.
May the majesty of God Omnipotent sustain and protect me ;
may His eternal goodness lead me; may His boundless charity
47The Book of Ceremonial Magic
inflame me ; may His supreme Divinity direct me ; may the
power of the Father preserve me ; may the wisdom of the Son
enliven me ; may the virtue of the Holy Ghost stand always
between me and my enemies, both visible and invisible. Power
of the Father, strengthen me ; wisdom of the Son, enlighten me ;
consolation of the Holy Ghost, comfort me. The Father is peace,
the Son is life, the Holy Ghost is the consoling and saving remedy,
Amen. May the Divinity of God bless me, Amen. May His
piety warm me ; may His love- preserve me. 0 Jesus Christ,
Son of the living God, have pity upon me a poor sinner.
WEDNESDAY
0 Emmanuel, defend me against the malignant enemy, and
against all my enemies, visible and invisible, and deliver me
from all evil. Jesus Christ the King hath come in peace, God
made man, Who hath suffered patiently for us . May Jesus
Christ, the gentle King, stand always for my defence between me
and my enemies, Amen. Jesus Chrhirisstt triumphs, Jesus Christ
reigns, Jesus Christ commands . May Jesus Christ deliver
mefrom all evils for ever, Amen. May Jesus Christ vouchsafe
me grace to triumph over all my adversaries, Amen. Behold
the Cross of our Lord Jesus Christ. Fly, therefore, 0 my
enemies, at the sight thereof; the Lion of the Tribe of Juda
and of the Race of David hath conquered . Alleluia, Alleluia,
Alleluia. Saviour of the world, save and succour me. Thou
who hast purchased me by Thy Cross and Thy Blood, succour
me, I conjure Thee, my God. 0 Agios, 0 Theos, Agios,
Ischyros, Agios, Athanatos, Elieson, Himas, Holy God, Strong
God, Merciful and Immortal God, have pity upon me Thy
creature, N. Sustain me, 0 Lord; forsake me not, reject not
my prayers, 0 Thou, the God of my salvation. Do Thou
assist me always, 0 God of my salvation.
48MYSTIC FIGURES OF THE ENCHIRIDION
49 DN
IThe Rituals of Transcendental Magic
THURSDAY
Enlighten mine eyes with true light, that they may never be
closed in eternal sleep, lest mine enemy should say : I have
Prevailed. over him. So long as the Lord is with me, I will not
fear for malice of my enemies. 0 ;most sweet Jesus, preserve
me, aid me, save me ; at the Name ofJesus let every knee bow,
in heaven, on earth and in hell, and let every tongue confess
openly that Jesus Christ is in the glory of His Father, Amen.
I know beyond doubt that in what day soever I shall call upon
the Lord, in the same hour shall I be saved. 0 most sweet Lord
Jesus Christ, Son of the great living God, Thou hast performed
most mighty miracles by the sole Power of Thy most precious
Name, and hast enriched the poor most abundantly, so that by
force thereof the demons flee away, the blind see, the deaf hear,
the lame walk erect, the dumb speak, the lepers are cleansed,
the sick cured, the dead raised up ; for wheresoever the most
sweet Name of Jesus is pronounced, the ear is ravished and the
mouth is filled with pleasant savour ; at that one utterance, I
repeat, the demons take flight, every knee is bent, all temptations,
even the worst, are scattered, all infirmities are healed, all disputes
and conflicts between the world, the flesh and the devil are ended,
and the soul is filled with every heavenly delight ; for whosoever
invoketh or shall invoke ,,this Holy Name of God is and shall be
saved-even by this Holy Name, pronounced by the angel even
before His conception in the womb of the Holy 'Virgin.
FRIDAY
0 sacred Name, Name which strengthens -the heart of man,
Name of life, of salvation, of joy, precious Name, resplendent,
glorious, agreeable Name, which fortifies the sinner,. Name
5IThe Book of Ceremonial Magic
which saves, Conserves, leads and rules all. May it please
Thee, therefore, most precious Jesus, by the power of this saw
(Name of) Jesus, to drive away the demon from me ; enlighten
me, 0 Lord, for I am blind ; remove my deafness ; set me
upright, who am lame ; give me speech, who am dumb ;• cleanse
my leprosy restore me to health, who am sick ; raise me up;
for I am dead ; give me life once more, and enrich me in all my
parts, within and without, so that, furnished and fortified by
Thy Holy Name, I may abide always in Thee, praising and
honouring Thee, because all is due to Thee, and Thou only art
worthy to be glorified, the Lord and Eternal Son of God, in Whom
all things rejoice, and by Whom all are governed. Praise, honour
and glory, be given Thee for ever and ever, Amen . May Jesus
be always in my heart and in my breast, Amen. May our Lord
Jesus Christ be ever within me, may He establish me for ever,
may He be around me and preserve me ; may He be before me
and lead me ; may He be behind me and guard me ; may He
be above me and bless me ; may He be within me and give me
life ; may He be near me and rule me ; may He be beneath me
and fortify me ; may He be always with me and deliver me
from all the pains of eternal death, Who liveth and reigneth for,
ever and ever, Amen.
SATURDAY
Jesus, Son of Mary, salvation of the world, may 'the Lord
look favourably upon me, with mildness and propitiation ; may
He give me a holy and willing spirit, to respect and honour
Him only, Who is the Liberator of the World. On Him could
no one lay hand, for His hour was not yet come-He Who is,
Who was, Who shall remain, God and man, the beginning and
the end. May this prayer which I offer unto Him deliver me
eternally from my enemies, Amen. Jesus of Nazareth, King
52The Rituals of Transcendental Magic
of the Jews, honourable title, Son of the Virgin Mary, have
pity upon me, a poor sinner, and lead me, according to Thy
loving-kindness, in the way of eternal salvation, Amen. Now
Jesus, knowing what things must come. to pass concerning Him,
came forward and said unto them : Whom seek ye ? They
answered Him": Jesus of Nazareth. But Jesus said unto them
I am He. And Judas, who was to deliver Him, was with them.
As soon then as He had said unto them : I am He, they fell
backward upon the earth. Then asked He them' again : Whom
seek ye ? And they said : Jesus of Nazareth. Jesus answered
I have told you that I am He; if therefore ye seek Me, let these
go their way (speaking of His disciples). The lance, the nails,,
the crossi~B, the thorns, the death which -I have endured, prove
that I have effaced and expiated the crimes of the unfortunate .
Preserve me, 0 Lord Jesus Christ, from all afflictions ofpoverty
and from the snares of my enemies. May the five wounds of
our Lord be until me an everlasting remedy. Jesus is the Way ij1,
Jesus is the Life ai, Jesus is the Truthj1,Jesus has sufered 1,
Jesus has been crucified 1, Jesus, Son of the living God, have
pity on me ~B. Now, Jesus passing went through the midst of
them, and no one could place his murderous hand upon Jesus,
because His hour was not yet come.
While these prayers are in some respects curious enough,
and may not be unreasonably termed pure and simple by
their intention, they compare unfavourably with the sublimity
and good sense which characterise those of the Roman
Liturgy ; they are inexact in their references and confused
in their method, and no person who seriously considers them
will sustain the early date which is claimed for them . Their.
period, is subsequent to the Renaissance, and the ignorance
of liturgical formulae which they shew, in common with all
53The Book of Ceremonial Magic
similar forgeries, makes it 'doubtful whetor they are the
work of an ecclesiastic at all. In any case, they are clumsy
imitations, the product of an unskilful hand .
§ 5. Summary of Transcendental Magic
This concludes our examination of the Rituals of so-called
Transcendental Magic, comprising all those to which any cur-
rency has been given. There are no doubt other treatises
which exist only in manuscript and possess no literary history,
but they scarcely come within the _ scope of the present inquiry.
I do not believe that anything has remained in obscurity
which is more entitled to come into notice than those which
have been mentioned briefly in the first chapter. But if I
am wrong it signifies nothing, for there has been enough and
to spare already.
The general conclusion which must follow from the exami..
nation is naturally of a foregone kind . As premised at the
outset, the Rituals with which we have been dealing are not
worthy of the name Transcendental, nor, does it belong to
them. We have, on the one hand, a collection of prayers,
falsely attributed and modern in their origin, to which no
occult significance can be reasonably attached. Devotionally,
'they are innocent enough ; applied after the manner of a
charm, they are offices of vain observance. 'On the other
hand, we have a bald rite for the Invocation of Olympic
Spirits, which, despite the grandiloquent claims of the unknown
author, is rather childish than exalted, for it may be assumed
that no person is naive enough at the present day to take
the angelical offices literally, and to believe, for example, that
by the evocation of Aratron the contents of his coal-cellar
will be transformed into real treasures. Transcendental Magic
is, therefore, hyperbolical in its promises ; while these` from the
54The Rituals of Transcendental Magic
mystical standpoint would be frivolous if they could be con-
strued literally. The occult student will derive no light from
such processes, but the subject is at the same time a very
curious and fantastic branch of bibliographical research, in
which I have been able, moreover, to clear up some doubtful
points, and in this sense it has been worth prosecuting. The
conclusion, then, in respect of the Rituals of Transcendental
Magic is that there are no ,Transcendental Rituals, and that
the truth is not in them.
,FROM ST. GEORGE 9. THE DRAGON. FLEMISH
SCHOOL, LATE FIFTEENTH CENTURY
57CHAPTER III
compooite situaio
i. The Key of Solomon the King
Y far the most important class of Magical Rituals is that
which incorporates elements both of Black and White
procedure--so called. For convenience of treatment
these are here termed composite. At the head of all, and, within
certain limits, the inspiration and the source of all, stands the Key
of Solomon, with its complement, in many respects more important
than itself, the Lemegeton, or Lesser Key, sometimes attributed
to Solomon Rabbi the Rabbi and the monarch are, however,
one and the same-at least in respect of their office, which is
the pseudonymous production of impostures. The other Rituals
which will be treated in this class are the so-called Fourth
Book of Cornelius Agrippa and the Magical Elements ascribed
to Peter of Abano. The occult student-who is commonly led
by fools, when not by impostors-has been taught to regard
these works as dealing exclusively with White Magic, and it is
part of the present design to indicate for the first time the
mixed character of their proceedings, even on the surface
thereof. The innumerable Rituals of Magic which remain in
MS. and are never likely to be printed, belong also, with few
exceptions, to the composite class, but, setting the Lemegeton
aside,-to which every prominence should be given, they have
had little influence, and being, therefore, of no moment to the
58Composite Rituals
history of the occult sciences, will not demand furtherconsidera-
tion-than has already been accorded some of them in the slight
sketch at the close of the first chapter.
Mr. Mathers' presentation of the Key of Solomon,' which
is still in, print, though the work of an uncritical hand,, must
be held to remove the necessity for entering into a detailed
account of the contents of that curious work. -So far as it
has been incorporated by the later makers of Grimoires, it
will be found, with its Goetic variations, in the Second Part .
We have here only to consider the question of its antiquity and
to establish its true character.
The Key of Solomon proper is familiar to scholars in Latin,
French, Italian and one or two German MSS. The oldest
codex used by the English editor is in contracted Latin, and
belongs to the sixteenth century. It is preserved in the British
Museum. It is possible that older MSS. may exist in Con-
tinental libraries, but those of the Bibliotheque Nationale and
of the Arsenal at Paris are of, later'date.' The majority of
known MSS. are in the French language. It is, however,
claimed that the work was written originally in Hebrew. In
this claim there is nothing essentially improbable, but it has the
disadvantage of being championed by the last class of persons
who hold titles for the expression of an opinion. Assuming
that it is well founded, it is not unlikely that the original may
r "The Key of Solomon the King (Clavicula Salomonis), now first translated and edited
from ancient MSS. inthe British Museum." By S. Liddell Macgregor Mathers. With plates.
George Redway. 1889. It has been reprinted of recent years.
2 As regards the Arsenal, they are all of the, eighteenth century. Les Clmvicules de Rabbi
Salomon, 2346 (72 S.A.F.), claims to be literally translated from the Hebrew text into French.
2348 (75 S.A.F:) is entitled Livre de la Clavicule de Salomon, Roy des He'breux; it is said to
have been translated from the Hebrew into Italian by Abraham Colorno, and thence into
French. 2349 (77 S.A.F.)F.,)reads, Les Vraies Clavicules du Roy Salomon, traduitte (sic) de-
t'Hebreux par Armadel. 2350 (78 S.A.F.) is entitled La Secret des Secrets, autnement La
ClaviculedeSalomon, ou kvbritableGrimoire. Finally, there is theLivreSecond de la Clavieule
a'e Salomon, 2791 (76 S.A.F.). '
59The Book 'of Ceremonial Magic
still exist. The large Hebrew literature of the Middle Ages
has been only imperfectly explored, especially in that part
which connects with practical Magic. The knavish methods
which have ruled in the manufacture of most magical books
largely discount the probability with which I am dealing, and
the mere affirmation in a manuscript cannot, under these circum-
stances, be regarded as evidence . No Hebrew scholar is
acquainted at the present day with such an original, and three
hundred years back the matter, according to P . Christian, was
involved in precisely the same uncertainty, for at the end of the
sixteenth century the learned Jesuit, Gretser, states that it
was unknown, but that there was a Greek translation in the
library of the Duke of Bavaria. The present whereabouts of
this highly important MS. I have failed to trace, though I must
not presume that I have taken especial pains concerning it .
In a literature of this class, whether that is best which lies the
nearest or not, it is serviceable enough for the practical pur-
pose. I do not propose to be the historian of Magic, whether
Black or White, or the classifier of its MSS . All occultism is
part of the path of descent, and that which is especially Black
may be in one sense the least harmful, as we know where
we are in its presence. I will therefore only add in termina-
tion of this question that in the eighteenth century the Abbe
d'Artigny mentions various examples of the Key of Solomon
in Latin, and also an 'edition printed. in 1655, which is not
. only unknown to Mr. Mathers, but seemingly to all modern
bibliographers.)
1 Christian's reference is, however, a mere travesty of some information found in the
Nouveaux Mimoires d'Histoire, de Critique, etde Littfrature, par M. l'Abb€ d'Artigny, 7 vols.,
Paris, 1749-17,56. The fourth article in the first volume is entitled, "Concerning some pre-
tended Books of Magic, with an Extract from the Clavicles of Solomon ." It enumerates three
works which, under this title, were current at the time in the French language, and a fourth
in Latin, ClaviculaSalomonis ad Filium Roboam. A Liber Pentaculorum is also mentioned,
in a way which leaves it to be inferred that it is the Key of Solanon under another title, but it
6o
tComposite Rituals
Leaving the language of the original an open question, it
is clear that, in either case, there is no ground for attributing
to the Key of Solomon in its present form a higher antiquity
than the fourteenth or fifteenth century, at which time Hebrew
literature was developing at a rapid rate.' If it were first
written in Latin, it is, at any rate, permeated with late Jewish
ideas, and the corrupt state of the Hebrew in the conjurations
and talismans-which is much the same, and that as bad as
it can be, in all existing copies-could scarcely have been
attained in less than two centuries of careless . and ignorant
transcription. We may therefore fix,the date of its manufac-
ture, or otherwise of its translation, about the period which has
been mentioned.
The attribution of the work to Solomon is obvious enough ;
it could not fail to have suggested itself to a compiler with
Kabalistic leanings and with a knowledge of Jewish tradition
from the days of the Talmud onward. Further, it is quite
is probably the Latin version of the Sepher Resist. Whetherany of these works were printed
does not explicitly appear, and the Abbe, like Christian himself, knew very little of his subject .
It is he, however, who supplies the information concerning Gretser, but it reads very differently.
'° Perhaps this (Liber Pentaculorum) is the same as the treatise De Necramantia ad Filium
Roboam, which Father Gretser, a learned German Jesuit, had seen written in Greek in the
library of the Duke of Bavaria." The collected works of'Gretser are in seventeen folio
volumes, and there are limits to research. It may be affirmed, however, that the Catalogus
Codicum Manuscriptorum Bibliothec zRegiaBavaria. auctere Ignatio Hardt, ejusdem bibliotheca
subpreoecto, 5 vols., Monarchii, 18o6, does not mention such a work. The reference to the
printed edition of the Clavicle occurs at pp. 36, 37 of D'Artigny's article, and describes it as
consisting of 125 pp. in quarto, without name of place or printer. The frontispiece (Q title)
reads " Clavicle of Solomon," with a cross within a circle beneath, and below this symbol is the
date 1655. The whole work is divided into twelve. paragraphs, of which D'Artigny transcribes
part of No. 9, an Exorcism of the Spirits of the Air, which most certainly does 'not occur in
any known edition of the Grand Clavicle, and is apparently adapted from the Lemegeton.
1 A bibliography of Papus appended to his Methodical Summary of the Xabalah enumerates
forty-seven separate Kabalistic treatises which appeared in Hebrew between the middle of the
thirteenth and the close of the sixteenth century. These are only the most noted, and extra.
Kabalistic literature was far larger. I mention this source of reference for the benefit of
the occult student, as it may be ready to his hand. The Magna Bibliotheca Rabbinica of
Bartolocci, forming-with its supplement by another hand-five volumes in folio, is the great
and monumental catalogue of literature in Jewry.
61The Book of Ceremonial Magic
consistent with a literature which has done nothing but ascribe
falsely. That it should be taken seriously by any well-equipped
person at the present day must, of course, be quite' inscrutable,
and in respect of the English editor, those who feel concerned
in the question may account for it in one of two ways :--by
a predisposition to accept statements on the faith of occult
tradition following upon a conviction as to the reality of occult
science ; or, alternatively, by a knowledge derived from the
traditions of initiation. The first is regrettable because it is
open to abuse, which is stating the case in terms of unstrained
mercy.; the second is not likely to exist, because it is in-
jurious to the intelligence of the King of Israel to suppose
that he wrote the Clavicle. I do not feel clear, however,
that it would be beneath certain storehouses of occult tradi-
tion to ratify the ascription or to make archives to support it.
In sum, it would be quite in accordance with the mind of
occult initiation to transmit a false tradition or to manufacture it.
So far concerning the antiquity of the work and the sove-
reign mystification of its authorship. It remains now to say
something of its character. The Key of Solomon can scarcely
be judged accurately in the light of its English version, for the
translator, preternaturally regarding it as a, highly honour-
able memorial of lawful magic, has excised as much as possible
the Goetic portions, on the ground that they are later interpola-
tions, which is of course arbitrary. He still retains, however,
what is generally stigmatised as one of the distinctive marks
of Black Magic ; the ritual is permeated with the bloody
sacrifice, which Mr. Mathers rightly condemns, but has not
seen his way to reject. His version further includes various
references to the performance of works of hatred and destruc-
tion-that is, works betraying an evil purpose, or a purpose
directly connecting with Black Magic. The chapter detailing
62Composite Rituals
the method of effecting such objects is omitted, but it is found
in five out of the seven codices upon which the version is based.
Furthermore, where the intention is not evil, it is frivolous,
hyperbolical or paramountly foolish . It is (a.) frivolous in such
experiments as the detection of stolen goods, by which it is
placed on the same level as the pedlar's literature of fortune-
telling ; it is (b.) hyperbolical and fantastic in the experiment
of invisibility, in the composition- of- the Magic Garters and
the Magic Staff;, it is (c.) foolish in such chapters as that
on preventing a sportsman from killing `any game. Perhaps,
however, these 'distinctions may be held to merge into one
another. M., Papus, the mouthpiece of the French occultists,
distinguishes between the Keys of Solomon and the impostures
of colportage but in what respect, it may be asked, are these
processes superior to the chapbooks of colpoleurs f
The highest ambition of the Clavicles is identical with
that of the Grimoires-to become master of a -treasure pos-
sessed by spirits. It should also be observed that experiments
which have for their object an interference with the freewill
of another person, such as that of seeking favour and love,
are essentially evil experiments.
I have now enumerated all the processes which are set
forth in this "fountainhead and storehouse of Kabalistical
Magic" ; it is for such trumpery purposes that the Magus
is directed to undertake his laborious preparation, and for
such also to put. in motion the powers believed to be -inherent
in Divine Names, in long 'pages of pretentious prayers and
in " stronger and more powerful" conjurations . However
much the justice of the critic may be tempered by the mercy
of the familiar explorer towards a memorial of occult science
which has been unduly, honoured-that is, honoured otherwise
than as a literary curiosity-it - must be concluded that the
63The Book of Ceremonial Magic
Key of Solomon is a grotesque combination of the pompous
and ridiculous ; it is, in fact, the old story of the mountain
and the mouse, but so great is the travail that, in this case,
the mouse is brought forth dead . -
2. The Lesser Key of Solomon
The Lemegeton, orLesser Key ofSolomon, Rabbi and King,
is a work of far more exalted pretensions, which deploys
all the hierarchies and evokes spirits by milliards . About
its antiquity there is no need for serious dispute ; it claims
to be translated from the Hebrew, but its earliest perfect
examples are in French of the seventeenth century, and no
one has heard of the original. It must have existed, however, .
in a much earlier form ; it 'is the subject of continual reference
by demonologists like Wierus, under the style of the sorcerer's
Liber Spirituum, and it is from this source that the scornful
sceptic who was the pupil of Agrippa, derived his Pseudo-
monarchia Dtemonum, with, however, significant variations from
the known copies.
The Lemegeton is divided into four parts, which control
the offices of all spirits at the will of the operator, from whom
the ordinary conditions are exacted.' With the exception
of the first part, which gave materials to Wierus, this curious,
and in many respects memorable, work has never been printed,
although it has been taxed surreptitiously for contributions by
most makers of Rituals and Grimoires. It deals, as I have
said, with the evocation of all classes of spirits, evil, indifferent
and good ; its opening Rites are those of Lucifer, Be], Astaroth
and the whole cohort of Infernus ; it is entitled Goetia, which
sufficiently explains itself,' and contains the forms of conjuration
1 See Part ii. c. i of the present work.
z It is the Greek word yonreta, i.e. Witchcraft.
64l
Composite Rituals
for seventy-two chief devils and their ministers, with an
account of their powers and offices. The second part, or
Theurgia Goetia, deals with the spirits of the cardinal points
and their inferiors. These are mixed natures, some good
and some evil. The third book `-is called the Pauline Ant,
for the significance of which name I am unable to account.
It concerns the Angels of the Hours of the Day and Night
and of the Zodiacal Signs. The fourth part, or Almadel,
enumerates four other choirs of spirits in a somewhat obscure
manner. There is one significant point about the entire work
-the powers resident in the offices of Infernal Spirits are
minutely set forth, but the Ritual is almost silent as to the
special benefits which may be expected from intercourse with
the higher classes of intelligence ; it is, therefore, obvious to
whom the magician would have recourse if he had a definite
end in view. It is, indeed, by no means improbable that the
first or Goetic portion constitutes the true Lemegeton, and
that the other sections, apparently unknown to Wierus, are
additions of a later date. This division, in either case, is
not only expressly, connected with Black Magic, or rather
exclusively devoted thereto, but it indubitably divides with
the so-called Greater Key the forbidding honour of having
been the chief inspiration of all the later handbooks of infernal
ceremonial. Devoid of any doctrinal part, it has nothing
which calls for citation in this place, but as no Grimoire
can pretend to completeness without it, all its hierarchic tabu-
lations and all its evoking processes will be given in the
Second Part.
I should state in conclusion that the Little Key is ascribed
sometimes to Solomon the King and sometimes to a Rabbi of
that name. I t should be distinguished, however, from the key
of Rabbi Solomon proper, which is more especially concerned with
65 EThe Book of Ceremonial Magic
the composition, consecration and use of planetary talismans.
It pretends to deal only with "good Genies," but it includes
the blood sacrifice, and there is the usual anxiety in respect
of the form and aspect in which the intelligence may appear .
It is, however, especially provided that no seal, pentacle or
character shall be applied to the injury of another, and more
especially a student of the art . The art, in fine, does not
involve any compact, "implicit or explicit." I suppose that
this production is later than others of the cycle .
§.3. The Pauline Art
If the intimation of the last section be accepted as a work-
ing hypothesis in respect of the Lemegeton, and if its third and
fourth books be therefore set apart as accretions, there is
possibly some colourable pretence for placing The Pauline Art
among composite Rituals. It is very difficult to speak certainly,
as what is offered in the work is the Ritual for the Invocation
of the Angels of Day and Night, the Angels of the Twelve
Signs and those of the Zodiacal degrees, who are termed
Angels of Men. There is, however, no distinct account either
of their offices or qualities, except in the case of the last, as
to whom it appears that their intervention can be sought only
for purposes which are in consonance with the laws of God
and the good of mankind generally. It is an arid document
largely consisting of name catalogues, but as for this reason
it is possible to present it shortly, and as it counts for some-
thing in the literature, I shall give it in the following form .
HOURS OF THE DAY
The Ruler of the First Hour is SAMAEL, who has 444
serving spirits under eight leaders, namely : Arniniet, Char
Daresiel, Monasiel, Brumiel, Nestoriel, Charmeas, Meresijn.
66Composite Rituals
The Ruler of the Second Hour is ANAEL, who has under
his control ten chief and one hundred lesser lords. These
in their turn command serving spirits. The chiefs 'include
Monarchas, Archiel and Chardiel; the subalterns include
Orphiel, Carsiol, Elmoym, Quoriel Ermosiel, Graniel.
The' Ruler of the Third Hour is VEGUANIEL, under whom
are twenty chief officers, two hundred lesser officers and a
cloud of serving -spirits. The chief officers include Murriel,
Leosiel, Drelmeth, Sardixiel; among the lesser officers are
Parmiel, Comadiel, Glmarij, Hantiel, Serviel, Furiel.
The Ruler of the Fourth Hour is VACHMIEL, who has ten
chief and one hundred inferior officers, having many serving
spirits. The chiefs include Ammiel, Lcfrmiel, Marfiel, Ormijel,
Sardiel and the inferiors Emarfieh Permiel, Quoriel, Sturbiel,
Daniel
The Ruler of the Fifth Hour is SAZQUIEL, having ten
chief and one hundred lesser officers, each with attendants.
The chiefs include Damiel Armarele, Maroch, Serapiel,
Fustiel, and the inferiors Jamersil Fu tiniet, Ramisiel, Amisiel,
Pul risiel.
The Ruler of the Sixth Hour is SAMIL, who has ten chief
and one hundred lesser officers, with a vast concourse of,
serving spirits. Among the chiefs are Araebel, Charuch,
Medussusiel, Nathaniel, Perniel, and among the subordinates
jamiel, Joustriel Sameon, Farsiel, Zamion.
The Ruler of the Seventh Hour is BARGINIEL, having also
ten officers and one hundred subalterns, among whom are
Abrasiel, Farmos, Nosteri, Mansiel, Sagiel, for the chief,
and Harmiel, Nastaro, Varmaj, Tusmas, Crociel, as inferior
examples:
The Ruler of the Eighth Hour is OSGAEBIAL, who has
many chief and subordinate officers and a great cloud of
67The Book of Ceremonial Magic
serving spirits. Among the chiefs are Sarfiel, Amatino,
Choriel Mosiel, Lanthros, and among the subalterns Demaros,
Osmajloel Januviel, Vernael, Thribiel.
The Ruler of the Ninth Hour is VADRIEL, having ten chief
and one hundred lesser officers and serving spirits even as the
sands of the sea. The greater include Astroniel, Charms,
Pamer f Damiel, Madriel; among the lesser are Kremos,
Meros, Brasiel Nafarin; Zoigmiel.
The Ruler of the Tenth Hour is ORIEL, who has ten
cohorts ofofficers presiding over many serving spirits. These
orders include Armesi, Darbiel, Panales, Mesriel Chorob,
Lemure, Ormas, Charm, Zazior, Namon-being one of each
choir.
The Ruler of the Eleventh Hour is BARIEL, whose army
is similarly divided, and as typical specimens of the ten orders
there are Almariz, Pralimiel, Chardros, Furmiel Lamie,
Menafiel, Demasar, Ormary, Hevas, Zemoel. ,
The Ruler of the Twelfth Hour is BERATIEL, whose officers
are divided into twelve orders, some greater and some lesser,
the examples of each being-in the first class, Cameron, Altro-
fael, Penatiel, Demarae, Famaris; and in the second, Pharniel
Nerostiel, Emarson, Voizia, Sameron.
HOURS OF THE NIGHT
The Negotia perambulantia in tenebris are more numerous
than those of the daylight. They are divided under their
respective Supreme Rulers into six chief and six secondary
orders, and the serving spirits are proportionately great in
number.
The First Hour. Supreme -Ruler-GAMIEL. The chief
officers include Moriel, Garthiel, Sej5haron, Mousien, Arathiel,
68
IComposite. Rituals
Cosel. Lesser officers : Zani&, Noxin, Tempast, Farion,
Glaras, Belsal.
The Second Hour. Supreme Ruler-FARRIs. The chief
officers include Almodar, Tamarid, Nedros, Ormisiel Chabril,
Praxil. Lesser officers : Permaz, Umeroz, Emaril, Fromezin,
Ramasiel, Granozin.
The Third Hour. ' Supreme Ruler-SARQUAMICH. The
chief officers include Meriar m, Crusiel, Penarys, Amriel,
Dencinoz, Nestozoz. Lesser officers : Evanel Sarmezin, Haglon,
Uvabriel Thymitzod, Fromzon.
The Fourth Hour. Supreme Ruler--JEFISCHA. The chief
officers include Armesiel, Nedruel Mane, Ormael, Phorsiel,
Rimezin. Lesser officers : Rayziel Gemezin, Fremiel, Hamay-
zod, Japnoill Lamediel.
The Fifth Hour. ' Supreme Ruler-ABASDARHON. The
chief officers include Moniel, Charby, Apiniel Dematron,
Nechoxim, Hameriel. Lesser officers : Harptzall, Chrymos,
Patrozin, Nameton, Barmas, Phatiel
The Sixth Hour. Supreme Ruler- ZAAZONASH. The
chief officers include Menoriia, Prenostix, Namedor, Cheratiel,
Dramazod, Fuleriel. Lesser officers : Pammon, Dracon, Gemt-
zod, Enariel, Rudosor, Salmon.
The Seventh Hour. Supreme Ruler-MENDRION. The
chief officers include Ammiel, Choriel Genaritzod, Pendroz,
Memsiel Ventariel. Lesser officers : Zacharel, Razziel, Tar-
nzitzod, Anapion, Framoch, Machmay.
The Eighth Hour. Supreme Ruler-NARCORIEL. The
chief officers : Cambill, Nedarijin, Astrocon, Marifiel, Dra-
mozin, Amelzom. Lesser officers : Hanoziz, Gastrion, Thomax,
Hebrazym, Zimeloz, Gamsiel.
The Ninth Hour. Supreme Ruler-NACORIEL. The chief
officers, not subdivided Adrapen, Chermes, Fenadros, Vema-
69The Book of Ceremonial Magic
siel, Comary, Demanor, Nameal, Maliel, Hanozoz, Brandzel,
Evandiel, Iamariel.
The Tenth Hour : JUSGUARIN. The chief officers ten,
including Lapheriel Emerziel, Mameroijud. Lesser officers
one hundred, including Chameray, Hazamil, Vraniel.
The Eleventh Hour : DARDARIEL. The great officers in-
clude Cardiel Permon, Armiel, Hastoriel Casmiros, Dumariel,
Tumoriel. Lesser- officers: Hermas, Druchas, Charman,
Elamiz, Ialcoajul Lamersf, Hamarytzod.
The Twelfth Hour : SARINDIEL. The chief officers include
Adoniel, Darmosiel, Ambriel and the lesser officers, Nefrias,
Irmanotzod, Melanos. There are others cited, but the list is
confused in my example and these will serve all purposes of
enumeration.
The Angels of the Twelve Signs-classing the latter
according to the elementary triplicities-are : Fiery Triplicity
Aries-Angel = Aiel; Leo-Angel = 01; Sagittarius-Angel =
Sizajasel. Airy Triplicity: Gemini-Angel = Giel; Libra--r
Angel=Jael; Aquarius-Angel =Ausiul. Watery Triplicity
Cancer.- Angel . Cael; Scorpio -Angel= Sosol; Pisces -
Angel= Pasiel. Earthy Triplicity : Taurus-Angel = Tual;
Virgo-Angel = Toil; Capricornus-Angel = Casujoiah.
But the supreme zodiacal presidency is allocated to the
archangels as follows : for the Fiery Triplicity, Michael ; for
the Airy Triplicity, Raphael ; for the Watery Triplicity,
Gabriel ; for the Earthy Triplicity, Uriel . This follows all
the traditional precedents. It is impossible to cite here the
so-called angels or genii of men who govern the zodiacal
degrees to the number of 360. They are exemplified by the
ruling archangels, whose invocation does not seem to be pos-
sible, and by the spirits attendant on these, as, for example
Asajel, Sochiel and Cassiel of the Earthy Triplicity ; Samael,
70composite Rituals
Madiel'and Mael, of the Watery Triplicity; and so forth. These
0
will suffer citation, but the success of the Pauline experiments
generally will depend (a.) upon the construction of the seals
attributed to the twenty-four ruling hours of the day and
night, which seals must exhibit the proper astrological signs
referable to the day" and hour of each intelligence ; (b.) upon
the use, when invocation takes place, of the proper planetary
perfumes ; (c.) upon the astrological seals referable to the chief
intelligences of the Twelve Signs under the presidency of the
four great archangels ; (d.) upon a consecrated crystal into
which the zodiacal spirits must be called by the operator ; and
(e.) upon the ceremonial use of the invoking formulae, specimens
of which are as follows.
HOURS OF THE DAY AND NIGHT
Invocation of a Supreme Ruler
0 mighty and potent prince Samael, who art the ruler and
governor of the first hour of the day by the decree of the Most
High God, King of Glory ; I, the servant of the Most High, do
desire and entreat you by three great and potent names of God,
ADONAI, AGLAON, TETRAGRAMMATON, and by the power and
virtue thereof, to assist me in my affairs, and, by your power,
and authority to send me, causing to appear before me, all or
any of the angels whom I shall call by name, the same being
resident under your government. I do further entreat and re-
quire that they shall help in all matters which accord with their
office, even as I shall desire, and that they shall act for me as
for the servant of the Most High. Amen.
THE INVOCATION OF A GENIUS IN THE CRYSTAL
The ceremony is performed facing towards that quarter of
heaven in which the sign is situated.
qI1
The Book of Ceremonial Magic
PRAYER
0 thou great and blessed angel N., my angel guardian,
vouchsafe to descend from thy holy mansions bringing thy holy
influence and presence into this crystal stone, that I may behold
thy glory and enjoy thy society and aid, both now and evermore .
0 _thou that art higher than the fourth heaven, thou who knowest
the secrets of ELANEL, thou who ridest on the wings of the wind
and art endowed with superlunary motion ; do thou descend
and be present, I pray thee. If ever I have merited thy society,
if my intentions are pure in thy sight, bring hither thine eternal
presence ; deign to hold commune with me, in the name of the
Great God JEHOVAH, to Whom the whole choir of heaven con-
tinually sings : 0 MAPPA LA MAN, Hallelujah. Amen.
By the proper observation of the rules laid down in the
Pauline Art respecting the Angels of Men, and on the assump-
tion that he is acquainted with the actual minute of his birth,
it is said that the operator may attain to all arts and sciences,
even to the sum of wisdom. In a word, it is the royal road
of knowledge, both in the theoretical and the practical degrees .
Of such is Astronomical Magic, according to the Lemegeton
and its dependencies. It does not differ essentially from the
system of the Enochian Tablets followed by John Dee and
Edward Kelley, his skryer, as found in the Faithful Relation.
The same observation will apply to the content of the next
section, which may be permitted to follow without further
preface.
§ 4. The Almadel
I shall explain in the first place that this scheme of invoca-
tion derives its title from the conventional talisman on which
72Composite Rituals
the process depends. It is made of white wax, and is inscribed
as hereinafter appears.
This figure is used for the four chief angels whose govern-
ment extends over the four altitudes of the world, namely,
East, West, North and South. It serves also for their ministers
N
Tetra$rammaton Shtidai Jah j;
ANABONA
C..
O
d >
E z xa
O
a
°°
< o
d
a
c
0 MTLA
fo
VNO9VNV
tjaH tojaH uoijaH
and inferiors. As, however, a different colour is attributed to
the choir of each quarter, and as this colour must dye the
white wax, it follows that those who would traffic with the
entire hierarchy must compose four Almadels. Their labour,
moreover, will not end here, for each talisman must have
four candles made from the same wax and set apart thereto .
Finally, there must be provided a seal of gold or silver,
on which must be engraved the names HELION, HELLUJON,
ADONAI. It serves for all the choirs. The candles are pro-
73The Book of Ceremonial Magic
vided with waxen feet, and the Almadel rests thereon, being
a four-square figure measuring six inches every way . The
colour for the Eastern choir is lily white ; the others are red,
green, and apparently a darkling green which approaches
black, but only the first choir is allocated to its distinct
quarter of the heaven. The names of the Intelligences are,
as follows :-
FIRST ALTITUDE : Alimiel, Ga&iel, Borachiel, Lebes,
Hellison. They make all things fruitful in creation.
SECOND ALTITUDE : Alphariza, Geron, Geron, Armon,
Gereinon. They have power over goods and riches, and can
make any man rich or poor. They also cause decrease and
barrenness.
THIRD ALTITUDE : El0hamasai, Gelomiros, Gedobonai,
Saranana, Elomnia. Their offices are not stated..
FOURTH ALTITUDE : Barchiel, Gediel, Gebiel, Deliel, Caj5tiel.
In this case also the offices are not stated.
When an Angel of the First Altitude responds to invoca-
tion, he carries a banner emblazoned with a white cross, his
body is clothed about with a luminous cloud, and he is crowned
with roses. UIe is fair of face, and, at his departure leaves a
sweet perfume. An Angel of the Second Altitude has the
form of a young child in rose-coloured satin, with a crown of
red gillyflowers on his head. His face looks towards heaven,
and shines with the light of the sun. The perfume which he
leaves endures for a long -time. An Angel of the Third
Altitude appears in the form of a child or little woman in green
and silver colours, wearing a crown of bay leaves beset with
white flowers. This apparition also leaves sweet perfume.
a
An Angel of the Fourth Altitude appears in the form of
boy or little man, in black or olive garments, crowned with
ivy berries. His perfume differs from the rest, but is not
74Composite Rituals
less sweet : all the manifestations are beautiful, and, as it is
said that they must not be called for anything against God
and His laws, it is only the. too certain company in which
the Almadel appears that renders its operations doubtful-I
mean, in respect of their intention.
Invocation takes place on a Sunday in the day and hour
of the sun. The candles are placed in the candlesticks the
AImadel rests-as we have seen-on the projecting feet of the-
candles, but so- that there is a clear space beneath ' it. There
is a hole in each corner, and when the intelligence is about
to manifest, an earthen vessel is placed under the talisman
containing hot ashes and three- grains of mastic in powder.
The smoke generated passes through the holes, and when it
is smelt by the Angel it is said that he begins to speak.
I should explain, howeler, that the furniture of the oratory
and the vestments worn by the operator .must be of the same
colour as the 41madel. The candles are lighted at the incep-
tion, the golden seal is placed in the middle of the talisman,
and,the Invocant kneels down, holding the Prayer at Calling,
which must be written on virgin parchment. The apparition
manifests over the Almadel, at first in the form of a mist.
This clears gradually, and when the incense rises the 'face of
the Angel is turned towards the operator, who is asked in a
low voice why the Princes of the particular Choir or Altitude
have been thus called. The answer is : " I desire that all
my requests may be granted and that which I pray for
accomplished, for it appears and is declared by your office-
that the same -is possible to you, if it please God ." The
particulars are enumerated without fear and without dis-
respect.
It would seem on the surface of the text as if no pre-
liminary invocation were needed for this work, but that is the
75The Book o Ceremonial Magic
confusion of the Ritual which relegates it to the end and to a
distinct part of the process.
THE PRAYER AT CALLING
Thou great, mighty and blessed angel of God N., who rulest
as the chief and first governing Angel in the first choir or altitude
in the East, under the great Prince ofthe East whom you obey,
who also is set over you as Kihg by the Divine Power of God,
ADONAI, HELOMI, PINE, Who is the disposer 'of all things in
heaven, earth and hell : I, the servant of that God, ADONAI,
HELOMI, PINE, Whom you obey, do invoke, conjure and entreat
thee, N., that thou wilt appear forthwith . By the virtue and
power of the same God I do command thee from thine order or
place of abode to come unto me and skew thyself plainly here
before me in thine own proper shape and glory, speaking in a
voice intelligible to mine understanding. 0 thou mighty and
blessed Angel N., I, the servant of the same thy God, do entreat
and humbly beseech thee to come and spew unto me all things
that I shall desire of thee, subject to the power of thine office
and the good pleasure of the Lord our God. By the three names
of the true God, ADONAI, HELOMI, PINE, and by the name
ANA BONA, I beseech and constrain thee forthwith to appear
visibly in thy proper shape, speaking in my ears audibly, that
I may have thy blessed, angelical and glorious assistance,
familiar friendship, constant society, communication and in-
struction, now and at all times, herein and in all truths which
the Almighty God, King of Kings, Giver of all good gifts, shall
be graciously pleased to bestow on me. Therefore, 0 thou
blessed Angel N., be friendly unto me, do for me as God hath
empowered thee, whereunto I now adjure thee to appear in
powter and presence, that I may sing with His Holy Angels
O MAPPA LAMAN, HALLELUJAH. AMEN.
76Composite Rituals
When he appears, says the Ritual,, give him a kind enter-
tainment; ask what is lawful, possible and becoming to his
office ; and you shall obtain it. If, however, he should fail to
appear, the four candles must be marked with the gold or silver
seal, which apparently will ensure obedience.
There are, however, certain planetary considerations con-
nected with this process, on which its success depends . The
two first Angels of the First Altitude can, only be called on the
first and second Sunday in March ; the third and fourth on the
Sundays in April the fifth after the sun has entered Gemini in
May. And so of the rest in succession.
§ 5. The Fourth Book of Cornelius Agripa
It is a matter now almost of general knowledge that a
Fourth Book of Occult Philosoj5hy is attributed to Cornelius
Agrippa, and that it is rejected as spurious. The authenticity
of the famous three books has never been questioned and is
indeed beyond challenge ; the fourth is perhaps less interesting
from the nature of its contents than from this question of its
authorship. It is, at the same time, a much more skilful
performance than the common run of magical impostures ;
it connects with and rises out of the genuine work in a very
curious manner; and, having regard to the special magical com-
plexion of the latter, there might seem no inherent reason why
it should not have been the production of Agrippa. The diffi-
culties concerning it may be reduced to three heads . One is of
time ; it appeared after the death of the restless speculating
philosopher of Nettersheim. Now, a posthumous publication is
not necessarily open to suspicion unless it is a treatise on Magic,
but a treatise on Magic of the period concerned, not appearing
in the lifetime of its writer, is open to the gravest suspicion,
because of the scandalous company to which it belongs . The
77The Book of Ceremonial Magic
second difficulty is internal, and I do not think that it can
be overridden. It is to a considerable extent a rechauffe of
various portions of the three undisputed books, and, even in
the days of Agrippa, it is not likely that any author would have
so liberally reproduced himself. The third difficulty is that it
was rejected as a forgery by Wierus, the pupil of Agrippa, who
must have had a good opportunity of knowing ; its rejection'
by later writers simply follows the lead of Wierus, and is
therefore of no moment. The strength of the case against it
lies mainly in the third difficulty, but other objections are
possible. Though not the work of Agrippa, it was evidently
produced in immediate proximity to his period .
The book itself, which is quite informally written, falls into
several divisions. There is, firstly, an elaborate treatise on the
method of extracting the names of the good and evil spirits
referred to the seven planets. This is a further development
of a subject treated at some length in the third book of Occult
Philosophy. The method is of no importance to our inquiry,
but those who have sought to unravel it confess that they have
been baffled. I ask leave to assure my readers that I have
not emulated their zeal by seeking to follow in their footsteps,
and, so far as I am concerned, the method therefore remains
in the bosom of its proper mystery. Possibly Agrippa and his
successor were only fooling their readers, and di4 not disclose the
secret. The treatise on Names is followed by one upon Char-
acters and, depending as it does from the first, this is also not
readily intelligible. I have left it to those whom it may concern.
Thereafter comes a formal tabulation of all the known shapes
familiar to the spirits of the planets, followed by a disquisition
upon Pentacles and Sigils, another upon the consecration
of instruments used in magical ceremonies, as also of fire,
water and so forth. The work concludes with methods for
78Composite Rituals
the invocation of good and evil spirits and a short process in
Necromancy. As I shall have occasion to cite it frequently
in the Second Part, the analysis may here be confined to
establishing its connection with diabolism, and the kind of
manifestations which are supposed to be obtained by its
processes.
Like. the Lemegeton, it gives- specific directions for com-
municating with evil spirits, and there is no question whatever
as to the lawful nature of the experiment, by which I mean
that no doubt on the subject entered into the mind of the writer,
who offers what he has ?to the artist without attempting to
justify its nature. Refinements of this kind were evidently
outside the magic of the fifteenth century. In the following
citation I shall depart from my usual custom of translating
at first hand, and make use, with some needful prunings,
of the version of Robert Turner, ' which is' quite faithful
and has, moreover, the pleasant flavour of antiquity.
CONCERNING THE INVOCATION O EVIL SPIRITS
If we would call any evil Spirit to the circle, it first be-
hoveth us to consider and to know his nature, to which of the
planets it agreeth, and what offices are distributed to him from
the planet. This being known, let there be sought out a place
fit and proper for his invocation, according to the nature of the
planet and the quality of the offices of the same Spirit, as near
as the same maybe done. For example, if his power be over
the sea, rivers or floods, then let a place be chosen on the
shore, and so of the rest. In like manner, let there be chosen
a convenient time, both for the quality of the air-which should
be serene, clear, quiet and fitting for the Spirits to assume
bodies-and for the quality and nature of the planet, and so
79The Book of Ceremonial Magic
too
of the Spirit, to wit, on his day, noting the time wherein he
ruleth, whether it be fortunate or unfortunate, day or night, as
the stars and spirits do require. These things being con-
i sidered, let there be a circle framed at the place elected, as
well for the defence of the invocant as for the confirmation of
the Spirit. In the circle itself there are to be written the
general Divine Names, and those things which do yield defence
unto us ; the Divine Names which do rule the said planet, with
the offices of the Spirit himself; the names, finally, of the
good Spirits which bear rule and are able to bind and constrain
that Spirit which we intend to call. If we would further fortify
our circle, we, may add characters and pentacles agreeing to
the work. So also, and within or without the circle, we may
frame an angular figure,' inscribed with such numbers as are
congruent among themselves to our work. Moreover, the
operator is to be provided with lights,' perfumes, unguents
and medicines compounded according to the nature of the
planet and Spirit, which do partly agree with the Spirit, by
reason of their natural and celestial virtue, and partly are
exhibited to the Spirit for religious and superstitious worship.
The operator must also be furnished with holy and consecrated
things, necessary as well for the defence of the invocant and
his fellows as to serve for bonds which shall bind and constrain
the Spirits. Such are holy papers, lamens, pictures, pentacles,
swords, sceptres, garments of convenient matter and colour,
and things of the like sort. When all these are provided,
the master and his fellows being in the circle, and all those
things which he useth, let him begin to pray with a loud voice
and a convenient gesture and countenance. Let him make
an oration unto God, and afterwards entreat the good Spirits .
I -he will read any prayers, psalms or gospels for his defence,
i Compare the figures of the Lemegeton, Part IL c. 4.
8o
IComposite Rituals
they should take the first place. Thereafter, let him begin to
invocate the Spirit which he desireth, with a gentle and loving
enchantment to all the coasts of the world, commemorating his
own authority and power. Let him then rest a little, looking
about him to see if any Spirit do appear, which if he delay,
let him repeat his invocation as before, until he hath done it
three times. If the Spirit be still pertinacious and will not
appear, let him begin to conjure him with Divine Power, but
in such a way that all the conjurations and commemorations
do agree with the nature and offices of the Spirit himself.
Reiterate the same three times, from stronger to stronger,
using objurgations, contumelies, cursings, punishments, suspen-
sions from his office and power, and the like.
After all the courses are finished, again cease a little,
and if any Spirit shall appear, let the invocant turn towards
him, receive him courteously, and, earnestly entreating him, let
him require his name. Then proceeding further, let him ask
whatsoever he will. But if in anything the Spirit shall shew
himself obstinate or lying, let him be bound by convenient
conjurations, and if you still doubt of any lie, make outside
the circle, with the consecrated sword, the figure of a triangle
or pentacle, and compel the Spirit to enter it. If you would
have any promise confirmed upon oath, stretch the sword out
of the circle, and swear the Spirit by laying his, hand upon
the sword. Then having obtained of the Spirit that which
you desire, or being otherwise contented, license him to depart
with courteous words, giving command unto him that he do
no hurt. If he will not depart, compel him by powerful con-
jurations, and, if need require, expel him by exorcism and by
making contrary fumigations. When he is departed, go not
out of the circle, but stay, making prayer for your defence
and conservation, and giving thanks unto God and the good
81, FThe Book of Ceremonial Magic
angels. All these things being orderly performed, you may
depart.
But if your hopes are frustrated, and no Spirit will appear,
yet for this do not despair, but, leaving the circle, return again
at other times, doing as before. And if you shall judge that
you have .erred in anything, then you shall amend by adding
or diminishing, for the constancy of reiteration doth often
increase your authority and power, and striketh terror into
the Spirits, humbling them to obedience.
Hence some do use to make a gate in the circle, whereby
they go in and out, which they open and shut as they please,
and fortify it with Holy Names and pentacles . This also we are
to take notice of, that when no Spirits will appear, but the
Master, being wearied, hath determined to cease and give over,
let him not therefore depart without licensing the Spirits, for
they that do neglect this are very greatly in danger, except they
are fortified with some sublime defence. Oftentimes also the
Spirits do come, although they be not visible (for to cause
terror to him that calls them), either in the thing which he
useth or in the operation . itself. But this kind of licensing-is
not given simply, but by a kind of dispensation with suspension,
until they shall render themselves obedient.
When we intend to execute any effect by evil Spirits where
I an apparition is not needful, this is to be done by making the
required instrument or subject of the experiment itself, whether
it be an image, a ring or a writing, any candle, character or
sacrifice, or anything of the like sort . The name of the Spirit
is to be written thereon, with his character, according to the
exigency of the experiment, either writing with blood or using
some perfume agreeable to the Spirit, making also frequent
prayers to God and the good angels before we invocate the evil
Spirit, and conjuring him by the Divine Power.
82Composite Rituals
Over and above the formal diabolism-of this process, there
are instructions for composing a book of evil spirits, to be
prepared ceremonially, according to their name and order.
By means of a " holy oath," the ready obedience of the Spirit,
whose name is written therein, is supposed to be insured. The
book itself must be formed of most puree and clean paper which
has never` been used previously--a stipulation which may have
been of moment in the days of the palimpsest, but is, of course,
scarcely necessary in our own. The image of the, Spirit must
be drawn on the left side, and his character on the right,
preceded by the oath which embodies the name of the Spirit,
together with his dignity, place, office and power. The opera-
tion must be performed on the day and in the hour of the
planet to which the Spirit is attributed. When the book
has been composed, it must be well bound and emblazoned,
being furnished also with markers and seals, for to open it
at random after its consecration might endanger the; operator.
It should be kept reverently and free from profanation, for
otherwise it will lose its virtue. Its consecration is a matter
of some difficulty, as every Spirit whose name appears therein
must be called before the circle, the bonds read over in his
presence, and each in succession must be compelled to impose
his hand where his respective image and character are drawn,
and to " confirm and consecrate the same with a special and
common oath." In a word, the document must be regularly
and legally delivered as the act and deed of each. During
this ceremony the book must be laid within a triangle described
outside the circle.
There can be no doubt that, these directions are the work
of a writer well acquainted with the Lemegelon, or that the
Liber Sbirituum `in question is identical with that mentioned
by Wierus. The forms assumed by the -evoked Spirits differ
83The Book of Ceremonial Magic
somewhat from those of the Lesser Key, which, moreover,
at least in its Goetic portion, has no planetary attribution .
According to pseudo-Agrippa, the Spirits of Saturn usually
appear with a tall and lean body and as angry countenance,
having four faces, of which one is in the usual position, another
at the back of the head, and two, with beaks, on either side.
They have also a face on each knee, of a shining black. Their
motion is like that of the wind, and it is accompanied with a
kind of earthquake. Their sign is white earth, "whiter than
any snow." Their particular forms are a bearded king riding
on a dragon ;i an old bearded man ; an old woman leaning
on a staff ; a boy ; a dragon ; an owl a black garment ; a
hookor sickle ; a juniper-tree. How the three last manifesta-
tions are provided with the six visages is a perplexity which
must be surrendered to occult commentators.
The Spirits of Jupiter appear with a sanguine and choleric
body ; they are of middle stature ; their motion is " horrible
and fearful," but they are mild of countenance and gentle in
speech. They are of iron colour, which ought to have connected
them with- Mars ; their motion is that of flashing lightnings,
and withal thunderous ; their sign is the apparition of men
about the circle who seem to be devoured by lions. Their
particular forms are a king with drawn sword riding on a
lion ; 2 a mitred personage in a long vestment ; a maid crowned
with laurel and adorned by flowers ; a bull ; a stag ; a peacock ;
an azure garment ; a sword ; a box-tree.
The Spirits of Mars have a tall body and choleric, a filthy
countenance, brown, swarthy or red in colour ; they have horns
like the hart, claws like a griffin and they bellow like wild
1 Alternatively, the image of a man, having the countenance of a hart and the feet of a
camel, a scythe in his right and a dart in his left hand. This also rode upon a dragon.
s Also on an eagle or dragon. Another form was that of a naked man crowned, and yet
another a man having the head of a lion or ram and the feet of an eagle.
84Composite Rituals
bulls. They have the motion of burning fire, and their sign
is thunder and lightning about the circle. Their particular
P
forms are an armed king riding on a wolf ; an armed man ;
a woman holding a buckler on her thigh ; a she-goat ; a horse ;
a stag ; a red garment ; wool ; a cheestip. Wool of a choleric
disposition is perhaps a Goetic form of gun-cotton.
The Spirits of the Sun are usually large of body and limb,
sanguine, gross, and of a gold colour tinctured with blood-
which recalls Mrs. Browning's pomegranate. Their motion is
that of lightning ; their sign is to produce sweat in the operator,
which might, however, be the normal property, of all these
stellar nondescripts of the world infernal. Their particular
forms are a sceptred king riding on a lion ; a crowned king ;'
a queen with a sceptre ; a bird-not otherwise described, but
anything probably except that of paradise ; a, lion ; a cock ;
a golden garment ; a sceptre ; and lastly, something which
Robert Turner wisely left untranslated-caudatus, i.e., tailed.
The Spirits of Venus have a body of medium height and a
pleasant visage, of which the upper part is golden and the lower
white or green. Their motion is like that of a brilliant star .
Their sign is the semblance of maids sporting about the circle
and luring the Magician to join them . Their particular forms
are a sceptred king riding on a camel; a naked maid ; a she-
goat ; a camel-possibly the atrocious demon of Cazotte ; a
dove ; a white or green garment ; the herb savine s
The Spirits of Mercury appear commonly with a body of
middle stature, cold, liquid, moist, which sounds redundant, but
1 Otherwise, on a lion, and armed with a naked sword, while in his left hand is a
man's head.
2 This manifestation seems to have been seated on a throne, with a raven in his breast and
a globe under his feet.
3 Other forms were a woman with the head of a bird and the feet of an eagle, who held a
dart in her hand; also a little maid in long white garments, with a comb in her left hand and
flowers in her right.The Book of Ceremonial Magic
the reference is to the properties of quicksilver-that is to say,
the Mercury of the philosophers was supposed not to wet the
hand, but the Mercurial spirits of the sorcerer apparently did.
They are withal fair, affable in speech, of human shape and
like unto armed knights. They are comparable to silver
coloured clouds in their motion. Their sign is that they cause
horror and fear in the operator. Their special shapes are a
king riding on a bear ;1 a comely youth ; a woman holding a
distaff-it is difficult to understand how such an apparition can
be like an armed knight, an observation which, if it were worth
while, might apply to the remaining modes of manifestation
a dog ; a she-bear ; a magpie ; a garment of many changing
colours ; a rod ; and a little staff.
Finally, the Spirits 'of the Moon have a large, soft, phleg-
matic body, even as a dark cloud in colour. Their countenance
is swollen, their head bald, their eyes are red and rheumy, their
teeth like those of a wild boar. Their motion is like that
of a great tempest sweeping the sea. . Their sign is a heavy
shower of rain about the circle. Their particular shapes are-
a king like an archer riding on a doe ; a little boy ; a huntress
with bow and arrows ; a cow ; a small doe ; a goose ; a green or
silver-coloured garment ; an arrow ; a many-footed creature-
perhaps a centipede.
The imbecility of this muddled tabulation places the forged
Fourth Book in a more absurd light than it otherwise deserves.
It really reproduces the manner of Agrippa's treatise with a
fidelity which is not unskilful and has quite as much claim to
be taken seriously as any of the composite Rituals . It is
difficult to say whether it is more especially on the side of
the devil or on that of folly, except in so far as these two
are one.
1 There is anotherriding on a peacock, with eagle's feet and crested head.
88
fComposite Rituals
6. The Heptameron
The Fourth' Book of Cornelius Agrippa ; was much too
informal, and left too much to the discretion of the operator,
to be satisfactory for a science so exact as' that of Ceremonial
Magic. A form of procedure which bequeathed nothing to
the imagination and asked no other skill -than the patient ex-
actitude of the rule of thumb was necessary to the weakness
of the ordinary sorcerer. The Heptameron, or Magical Ele-
ments ascribed to Peter de Abano is an attempt to supply the
want and to offer to the neophyte a complete wizard's cabinet.
Cornelius Agrippa, says the introduction, which might, ex
hypothesi, be that of a later hand, seems- to have written for the
learned, for the well-experienced in this art ; he does not treat
specially of the ceremonies, but mentions them in a general
way. Those who have not " tasted magical superstitions " may
here find them ready to their hand. " In brief, in this book
are kept the principles of magical conveyances." It may be
conceded at once that the undertaking is scrupulously fulfilled ;
what the operator must do and how he should perform it, so as
to " draw spirits into discourse," are matters set forth so plainly
that the wayfaring man need not err therein. Assuming the
sacerdotal office of the operator, or a priest for an accomplice,
it is all so simple that failure could not well be ascribed to a
blunder on his part.
It would be invidious to suppose that the Heptameron
is more authentic as regards its attribution than the work to
which it is professedly a sequel ; its real authorship is involved
in much the same kind of obscurity as that of pseudo-Agrippa.
There are several grave reasons why the pupil of Trithemius
should not have written the spurious Fourth Book, but Peter of
Abano is not an unlikely personage to connect with the Magical
89The Book of Ceremonial Magic
Elements, if it were not for a trifling chronological disparity of
about three hundred years. It is true that Agrippa professedly
wrote upon Magic, and the other upon Astrology and Geomancy,
unless his imputed works in these departments of occult'science
are also forgeries but the Hefttameron was never heard of
for the space which I have mentioned after the death of its
reputed author, which occurred in 1316, and it is too obviously
later in its tone, too obviously a sequel' to a much more recent
work, for it to have been possibly a memorial of the fourteenth
century.
Peter of Abano, a town in the vicinity of Padua, was born
in 1250 and was a learned physician of his period, who at-
tempted to conciliate the different medical systems and is sup-
posed to have been the first European who quoted Averroes.
He established himself at Paris, but at the instigation of jealous
professional brethren he was accused of heresy and fled to
his native place. At Padua a chair of medicine was created
for him, but the accusation followed its victim ; by some he was
charged with denying the existence of demons, by others with
obtaining his knowledge from seven imps whom he kept in a
bottle. However this may be, the Inquisition instituted a
process, but the designed sufferer was delivered by death--
as some say, on the eve of his execution . The intervention
infuriated the Tribunal, though the testament left behind him
by Peter of Abano affirmed his belief in the orthodox faith.
The magistrates of the city were ordered, on pain of excom-
munication, to exhume his body, but it was removed by a
faithful servant and buried secretly in another church . The
Inquisition clamoured for the punishment of the' offender but
r A sequel, moreover, which contains several direct references, as, for example: f°But after
what manner they appear has been described already in the former book of magical ceremonies."-
The Conjuration of the Lord's Day. This recurs with slight variations throughout the
Heptameron. It may be advisable to add that Agrippa was of the sixteenth century.
9oComposite Rituals
was content in the end to burn the dead, physician in effigy .
As a counterpoise, a century later his bust was placed, in the
town-hall of Padua. His undoubted works, which are frankly
unreadable, betray no acquaintance with the occult sciences
beyond a belief in astrology, which in those days was catholic
as Rome and powerful as the Holy Tribunal. He remains,
therefore, one of the moral, martyrs of Magic, faussement accuse,
as Gabriel Naude has it. His accusation and the mode of its
prosecution remain also among the lesser glories of the Holy
Office.
Accepting the He tameron as a work belonging to the
period of its first publication, it is here placed among the Rituals
of a composite character, not because it professedly deals with
devils, but because the nature of its angels and spirits is indi-
cated by the manner of their conjuration ; in a word, they are
described as angels and threatened as demons.
The procedure is divided into two parts-a general method
for the evocation of the Spirits of the Air, who are undoubtedly
demons, and a set of angelical conjurations proper to each day
of the week. The second section presumably belongs to the
department of White Magic-if I may adopt this glorious dis-
tinction in the ribaldry of a passing moment-as the intelligences
concerned are said to be good and great, - though their offices
are mixed and confusing, including the discovery of treasures,
the detection of secrets, fomenting war, opening locks and bolts,
procuring the love of women, inclining men to luxury and sowing
hatred and evil thought. Obviously, White Magic, of this kind
is much blacker than it is painted. Though the entire ~ Hep-
tameron appears under one attribution, the first part only is
ascribed in the text to Peter,de Abano. Therein, the personal
preparation of the operator corresponds to that given in the
Second Part of the present work, and the ceremonial itself,
9zThe Book- of Ceremonial Magic
which, if cited at all, would have to be printed in extenso, as
it contains no detachable portions, is much too elaborate to be
inserted in this place, more especially as that of the Lemegeton
will provide later on a fairly complete notion of the scope and
purpose of the Composite Rituals, taken in their broad aspect,
and will illustrate the fact that all conventional distinctions
dissolve therein.
§ 7. The Sacred Magic of Abramelin the Mage
The existence of this text had been known to students for
a considerable period before it was made available in an
English translation by the editor of the Key of Solomon. The
amateurs of occult science in the more dubious of its practical
branches became possessed of this pearl of tradition in 1898,
and I suppose that it is familiar enough in certain circles . I am
sorry that it seems necessary to say a few words concerning it in
the present place. Mr. -Mathers prefixed an introduction which
does honour to his especial form of talent-that is to say, it is
s
eloquent as a caution respecting things which should be avoided
by an expert in the expression of his views and the mode of
writing exercises in English.
The text is preserved in the Arsenal Library at Paris and
is a French manuscript belonging to the early part of the
eighteenth century ; it is also the sole copy which is known
certainly to collectors, though there is a rumour of another in
Holland. According to its own claim, the work-belongs to the
year 1458, at which period it was written by one Abraham, the
son of Simon and the father of Lamech, for whose benefit it
was more especially designed. The original is said to have
been in Hebrew, and this statement on the part of the text
is naturally accepted by the translator. It is perhaps rendered
92Composite Rituals
the more probable from his point of view by the lavish internal
evidence that it is the work of a Christian hand, is full of
Christian references and allusions to late Grimoires . The point
is not worth debating, at least on its own merits, but the
references (a.) to the " Jewish Sabbath," (b.) to the custom of
paternal benediction, (c.) to those who leave Christianity for
Judaism, (d.) to the festival of Easter, and otherwise (e.) its
allusions to the New Testament, (f.) its use of the Vulgate,
and (g.) its hypothesis concerning Guardian Angels are un-
mistakable proof for those who know what is meant by textual
evidence. To conclude on this part of the subject, the date of
the work is the date of the known copy, or thereabouts ; it was
never written in Hebrew, or by one who was acquainted with
Hebrew ; and the claim that the author was a Jew has the
same value as the translator's brilliant speculation that the
supposed Abraham was a descendant of that other Abraham
the Jew, whose mysterious hieroglyphical tract on Alchemy
came, as it is alleged, into the hands of Nicholas Flamel, his
putative contemporary.
Abramelin the Mage was an instructor of the magical
Abraham, who reduced into writing the knowledge which he
received from this source, prefixing thereto some account of his
own life and occult adventures. There are several respects in
which the text differs conspicuously from the common run of
the Rituals. It derides, for example, all observations of times
and seasons along the usual and accepted lines . Such for-
malities, it is said, have no power over spirits or virtue in
supernatural things. It would follow not unreasonably from
this, and is made plain in a special chapter, that the majority
of magical books are false and vain. They are also otherwise
evil, not only on account of their superstitious attention to
celestial signs, but from their use of unintelligible words in
93The Book of Ceremonial Magic
the processes of conjuration, and so forth. These words are
inventions of the devil, or alternatively of wicked men . Stress
is laid also on the fact that Rituals of this kind contain no
invocations of God, which is demonstrably a libel on the
literature.
It will be understood that the hypercritical Abraham is
careful on his own part to call upon the Divine aid, but his
conjurations are few and simple. He relies, however, on
the help of those Guardian Angels which Christian tradition
and_ doctrine attribute to each soul of man. On the other
hand, he makes no use of words, figures or pentacles, which he
proscribes as abominations invented by diabolical enchanters .
He is, therefore, an exponent of Art Magic in the utmost sim-
plification thereof, but that which he saves in ritual he expends
in the dramatic elaboration of general mise en scene. Looking,
however, at his claim, one is tempted to think for a moment
that we are in the presence of new modes , and even of
new intentions in respect of "magical vanity." This time
surely, the work is on the side of . God, and there is a certain
encouragement in the mere title, which says that the content
of the book is actually that Holy Magic which God gave
unto Moses-to Aaron, David, Solomon-to the other saints,
patriarchs and prophets ; that it is also the true and the Divine
Wisdom, a statement reiterated continually throughout the text
itself. It is all for the glory of God, for His high honour, the
good of the pious operator and that of the human race.
But when we come to the dealings with spirits, we find
that they are Lucifer, Leviathan, Satan and Belial, for the
superior princes, and Astaroth, Asmodeus, Beelzebub, et
hoc genus omne, for the lesser powers. Furthermore, these
demons may be summoned indifferently for operations of
good or evil, while the objects are the usual objects, the
94Composite Rituals
time-long interests, the glorious dedications of White and
Black Magic, as established by the concurrent testimony of
all the Rituals. The recovery of stolen things, the acquisition
of buried treasures, the stirring up of hatred and enmity,
the, casting of spells and the usual venereal experiments-such
are the ends in view. There are even processes in Necro-
mancy, which art is eschewed by all but the most abominable
forms of Black Magic.
As the text has been made available, it may be left at this
point. No doubt the translator will continue to regard it
as a work of great " importance " from the occult standpoint,
and its existence in an English form as " a real . benefit" to
students. I leave it to him.
r
THE SUN-GOD RA SLAYING THE DRAGON OF DARKNESS.
From the Papyrus of Hunefer, c. B.C. 1370-
95CHAPTER IV
cbe Mituaio of lBIacf magic
§ I. The Grimorium Verum
H E four specific and undisguised handbooks of Black
T
Magic, all in the French language, but in three cases,
like so much of the Ceremonial literature, possessing
Italian connections, real or imputed, are :-
I. GRIMORIUM VERUM, or the Most Approved Keys of
Solomon the Hebrew Rabbin, wherein the Most Hidden
Secrets, both Natural and Supernatural, are immediately
exhibited ; but it is necessary that the Demons should be
contented on their part.' Translated from the Hebrew by
Plaingiere, a Dominican Jesuit,' with a Collection of Curious
Secrets. Published by Alibeck the Egyptian.
1 517.3
II. TRUE BLACK MAGIC, or the Secret of §eerets, an MS.
found at Jerusalem in the Sepulchre of Solomon, containing
I. Forty-five Talismans with their representation, as also the
r This, is only a conjectural translation. It is impossible to render such a passage asmodo
operator per necessaria ett contenta ,Tacit scia tamen oportit Deemonum potentia duns taxat per
agantur.
s It will be scarcely necessary to advise the reader that a Dominican Jesuit is an absurdity,
which might be paralleled by "secular monk," "unordained priest," and so forth. The Order
of St. Dominic and the Society of Jesus are totally distinct. A Catholic critic might almost be
justified in observing that so gross a blunder would be possible only to a Jew or a heretic ;
certainly he would have more reason than would be discoverable in the hypothesis of Papus,
that priests are the authors of the Grimoires.
On the reverse of the title :-The True Clavicles of Solomon. Memphis. Published by
Alibeck the Egyptian.
96The Rituals of Black Magic
manner of using them, together with their Marvellous Pro-
perties. 2. All Magical Characters known unto this day .'
Translated from the Hebrew of the Magus Iroe-Grego.$
Rome. I n the year of grace, 1 750.
III. THE GRAND GRIMOIRE, with the Powerful Clavicle
of Solomon and of Black Magic ; or the Infernal Devices of
the Great Agrippa for the Discovery of all Hidden Treasures
and the Subjugation of every Denomination of Spirits, together
with an Abridgment of all the Magical Arts. (In its earliest
edition, without place or date.)
IV. THE CONSTITUTION OF POPE HONORIUS THE GREAT,
wherein may be found the Arcane Conjurations which must
be used against the Spirits of Darkness. With a Collection
of the Most Rare Secrets. Rome, 1670.
,
They are all tiny volumes, nominally in duodecimo, but
much smaller according to modern measurements .
The date specified in the title of the Grimorium Verum
is undeniably fraudulent ; the work belongs to the middle of
the eighteenth century, and Memphis is Rome. The Graxd
Grimoire is not of higher antiquity. That of Honorius is said
to have appeared originally in 1629, but it has been some-
times referred erroneously to the same period of the previous
century.
As indicated by the authorship which is attributed to it,
the Grimorium Verum is based to some extent upon the Key
off Solomon, the main points of resemblance being in the de-
scription of the magical instruments and in some of the forms
of prayer. It distinguishes plainly the powers which it is pro-
i That is, mystic characters for engraving on magical instruments, vessels and vestments
The statement is utterly untrue, for the characters given by the Grimoire are few in number
and exceedingly imperfect as well.
Mr. Mathers reads Iohb Grevis. Iroe Gecis is another variation. It is a corruption in
any case.
97 GThe Book of Ceremonial Magic
posed to invoke by the name of Devils.' At the same time
it refers them nominally to the four elements, which would
connect them with the Sylphs, Salamanders and so forth ; but
the classification in question, somewhat incidentally made, does
not really obtain. There is an account of the Hierarchy of
Spirits, with Lucifer, Beelzebuth and Astaroth as potentates
in chief.' A portion of this account is drawn from the Leme-
gelon, perhaps through the Pseudo-monarchia of Wierus. The
work purports to be divided into three sections, containing :-
(a.) The Characters and Steals of the Demons, with the forms
for their Evocation and Dismissal. , (b.) A description of the
Natural and Supernatural Secrets which can be operated by
the power of the Demons, and that without any deception .
(c.) The Key of the work, and the proper application thereof.
Passing over typographical errors, the MS. from which it has
been printed must have been in a most confused state ; there
are not in reality any distinct divisions, and the little volume
abounds in Latin passages which often defy translation, as, for
example, sic j5ro ration voluntas ; ut illud sit hoc in oJere in-
clusum minimo clerum in doctis; quia amicusfiet caaitalis, fief
inimicus. So also we have Sanctum Regum throughout for
Sanctum Regnum. There are two folding plates of Characters
and Seals, of which many have no reference to the text, while
others essential to the process are missing, the deficiencies
being supplied in the modern Italian versions, which pro-
bably follow another edition, also Italian, and the source of
1 "Here beginneth the Sanctum Regnum, called the Royalty of Spirits, or the little Keys
of Solomon, a most learned Hebrew nigromancer and Rabbin, containing various combinations
of characters, whereby the Powers, Spirits or, more correctly,, Devils are invoked, so that they
are forced to appear whensoever you may determine, each one according to his faculty, and are
compelled to bring whatsoever you may require of them, causing you no kind of annoyance,
provided only that they are contented on their part, for these sorts of creatures give nothing for
nothing."
See Part ii, c. 3-
98The -Rituals of, Black Magic
..the French translation, but unknown to the present writer,
as indeed to most bibliographers. The work, as it stands, is
really in two parts only, the Grimorium Verism proper and
certain "Rare and Astounding Magical Secrets ." The first
may be analysed as follows :--(a.) Directions for the'preparation
of the Operator, all of a personal kind and analogous to those
of the Clavicle. (b.) Instructions for the manufacture of the
magical instruments required in the work, also analogous to
the Clavicle. (c.) The composition of the virgin- parchment
on which the characters and seals are to be inscribed, shewing
distinct variations from the Clavicle. (d.) The processes of
evocation and the'discharge. Beyond the fact that the evoked
Spirits are Lucifer, Beelzebuth, Astaroth and the inferiors and
ministers of these, this first and chief part is'not more repul-
sive, as it is :indeed scarcely more unintelligent, than most of
the processes in its prototype.
The second part contains the usual curiosities common to
all the later Grimoires, including the Admirable Secrets of the
pretended Albertus Magnus, the Little Albert, &c. In so
far as it presents any considerable variations, such variations
are usually in the direction of Black Magic. Some are venereal
in the more objectionable sense of the term, others merely
revolting, while yet others, as that of the Magic Garters, are
derived from the Clavicle. Finally, there are certain processes
which might claim to be those of White Magic1 and are concerned
with the ceremonial induction of simple clairvoyance .
We may therefore conclude that the Grimorium Verum
proper is not more diabolical than the first part of the Leme-
geton, which indeed contains the ceremonial for the evocation of
precisely the same spirits.
t
1 See Part ii. a 8, §§ 6, 7, and 8.
99The Book of Ceremonial Magic
§ 2. True Black Magic
The Grimoire entitled True Black Magic is simply an
adapted version of the Key of Solomon, with the same pre-
ambles, the same ritual, the same talismans, and characters
which are analogous when they are not identical . With the
moderately intelligible and religiously careful presentation of
Mr. Mathers it of course compares very badly ; like the Gri-
morium Verum, it is exceedingly confused, and is rendered
almost unmeaning by the omission of all the practical part. Its
malicious or diabolical element consists, however, more especi-
ally in its introduction of the chapter upon works of hatred
and destruction, which, as already seen, and as more fully
established later on, should undoubtedly be regarded as an
integral portion of the original work.
§ 3. The Grand Grimoire
The Grand Grimoire is the most fantastic of the cycle and
is introduced with great pomp by its pretended editor, Antonio
Venitiana del Rabina, a personage whose name indicates the
Italian origin of the work, By reason of its rarity and the
great request in which it is, we are informed that it must be
regarded as the veritable Magnum Ojus-a view which may
appear inconsequential, but for which the authority of Rab-
binical writers is cited. It is to these authors that we owe
the priceless treasure which innumerable charlatans have en-
deavoured to counterfeit, but have never succeeded in discover-
ing. The copy made use of by Antonio in preparing his
edition was transcribed from the genuine writings of the mighty
King Solomon, which were obtained by pure chance . "Of
I00The Rituals of Black Magic
a truth, what other man,, save this invincible genius, would have
had the hardihood to reveal the withering words which God
makes use of to strike terror into the rebellious angels and
compel them into obedience? Having soared into the celestial
altitudes that he might master the secrets and learn the omni-
potent words which constitute all the power of a terrible and
venerable Deity, the essence of those innermost arcana, made
use of by an infinite Divinity, was extracted by this grand king,
who passed all the days of his life in the most laborious re-
searches, and in pursuit of the most obscure and hopeless
secrets. He succeeded ultimately in all his undertakings, pene-
trating into the most remote haunts of spirits, whom he bound,
one and all, and forced them to obey him by the power of
his Talisman or Clavicle. Therein he has discovered unto us
the stellar influences, the constellation of ,the planets tLnd the
method for the evocation of all hierarchies of spirits by the
recitation of certain sublime Appellations, as they are hereafter
set down for you in this book, as well as the true composition
and effects of the dreadful Blasting Rod, which causes the
spirits to tremble ; which God also used to arm his Angel when
Adam and Eve were driven out of the Earthly Paradise ;
wherewith, finally, he smote the rebellious Angels, precipitating
their ambitions into the most appalling gulfs by the power of
this very Rod-of this Rod which collects the clouds, disperses
tempests, averts the lightning, or precipitates each and all upon
any portion of the earth at the pleasure of its director ."
Such is the preamble of the Grand Grimoire. The work is
divided into two parts, the first containing the evocation of
Lucifuge 1 Rofocale by means of the Blasting Rod, the second
1 This alteration of the fallen Light-Bearer into Fly-the-Light does not seem to occur in
magical literature preceding the Grand Grinwire. It was afterwards adopted by L6vi, by
whom it has been made popular among occultists, who are, for the most part, quite unaware of
its source, as they usually are in such cases.
to'The Book of Ceremonial Magic
being that which Antonio inscrutably regards as the Sanctum
Iegnum, namely; the Rite of making Pacts ; but one of the
most notable characteristics of all the Grimoires is not their
diabolical malice, but their unconscious ingenuousness, while
the devout, almost laudable, character of all the operations
seems to have been held quite sincerely.
The Grand Grimoire is, however, regarded as one of the
most atrocious of its class ; it has a process in Necromancy
which is possible, say some occult writers-in the geniality of
a lucid interval-only to a dangerous maniac or an irreclaim-
able criminal. It must be ladxnitted that the Rite is highly
unreasonable, but in dealing with such literature it seems
unsafe to advance the objection, for it applies much too widely.
As to its criminality, this centres in the creation of a dis-
turbance at midnight Mass on Christmas Eve. There is
further an account of a poison entitled " The Composition 'of
Death, or Philosophical Stone," which is supposed to indicate
an advanced degree of diabolism. Eliphas Levi says that it
pretends to confer the Powder of Projection, the great Mystery
of the Sages, but it gives really the Powder of Consecution-
as to the significance of which a vague image can alone be
invoked. It may, in any case, be added that it cannot well be
either, seeing that the composition is a liquid. For the rest, it
is simply a stupid recipe, and as no unlawful application is sug-
gested, it is not diabolical at all, unless toxicology, as such, is
Satanic, simply because it does not deal in anodynes.
There is, of course, no question that the Grand Grimoire
is a book of Black Magic, and it is contrary to the nature of
things that a book of Black Magic should be otherwise than
diabolical. The most objectionable works are not those which
openly announce that they are evil, but those which teach evil
under the pretence of excellence. The noticeable point, as
102
sThe Rituals of Black Magic
regards the Grand Grimoire, the other works of its class and
the White Rituals, is that, the diabolism of the confessedly
diabolical is often so exceedingly thin, while the angelical
element in processes assumed to be angelical borders so
often and so perilously on the Satanic side . The first part of
the Grand Grimoire, like the Grimorium Verum, is simply
a process for the evocation of evil spirits to obtain the en-
forced surrender of hidden treasure. In the second part the
magician is certainly expected to give himself, body and soul,
to the demon who serves him meanwhile, and there can be no
hesitation in admitting that this creates a sharp distinction, not
only between the Grand Grimoire and all the Composite
Rituals, but also between the Grand Grimoire and the other
Liturgies of Black Magic. It is only a palliation to say that
the compact is worded as a subterfuge, and in realityy gives
nothing to the demon, who here, as so frequently in folk-
lore, is bamboozled, receiving the shadow in place of the
substance.'
§ q.. The Grimoire of Honorius
Despite the iniquities of the Pacta Conventa Dcemonum,
the Grand Grimoire has failed, however, to invoke upon itself
such severe condemnation as the Grimmoire ofHonorius the
Great, otherwise Honorius the Third. It is scarcely too much
to say that almost every accusation preferred against this re-
markable work is false generally and specifically,' the chief
distinction between them being that some are the misrepresenta-
tions of ignorance and others the false interpretations of, pre-
judgment. The French occultist, Papus, alone seems to take
the middle view, though he speaks with some vagueness when
' Compare the droll history of the Devil and his Dam, and that concerning the course of
Black Magic delivered_ by the Prince of Darkness at the University of Salamanca.
103
JThe Book of Ceremonial Magic
he says that the sorcery of this Grimoire is more dangerous
for weak experimentalists than for the enemies of the sorcerer.
h`liphas Levi observes that the work is not without importance
for the students of occult science.' At first sight it seems to
be nothing but a tissue of repulsive absurdities, but for those
who are initiated in the signs and secrets' of the Kabalah,
it is said that it becomes a veritable monument of human
perversity. There was seldom a statement for which there
was less foundation ; there was never a magical work which
less connected with Kabalism ; the relation in so far as it
exists, and it is confined to a few words which occur in the
Conjurations, is common to all Ceremonial Magic, and this
is the one Grimoire which is most permeated with Christian
elements. Those, however, who are well acquainted with the
principles of interpretation which obtain in the writings of Levi,
will not take a charge seriously which depends upon the signi-
ficance of Kabalistic words or signs, for it is notorious that
with the French occultist they meant many things according
to his humour, and that he did not know his subject. But
Eliphas Levi was not contented with the general impeach-
2
ment ; in a later work he elaborated a more particular charge .
In common with the Key of Solomon, and all the Grimoires,
the work of Honorius prescribes the sacrifice of a virgin kid,
with the object of ensuring the possession of a virgin parch-
ment by the operator. Now, Levi affirms that when the
" abominable author " mentions a kid, he means really a human
child. In this interpretation he has not even the excuse of
the humorous analogy which has been instituted in vulgar
English, for his acquaintance, had he any, with our language
was exceedingly slight. There is not a particle of foundation
Histoire de la Magie, p. 307.
La Clef des Grands Mystres. See also "Thaumaturgical Experiences ofEiiphas LEvi"
in The Mysteriesof Magic, by A. E. Waite, second edition.
104The Rituals of Black Magic
for the charge ; the sacrifice in the case of the Grimoire of
Hoonorius means, and can mean, no more than in the case of
the Key of Solomon., There was a defined purpose in connec-
tion with the slaughter of the victim, which was the same in
both instances.
So far concerning the misinterpretations of writers who
pretend to some first-hand acquaintance with the work under
notice. Others who have mentioned it within recent years
have been content to follow the French authority without
examination. Thus it is that I find Mr. J. H. Slater, in a
paper read before the Bibliographical Society, and printed
in its Transactions,' describing this Grimoire as an advocate
of murder and all kinds of crimes. Furthermore, he confuses
it throughout with the Grand Grimoire.
Taking the work at first hand, the initial question concern-
ing it is the attribution of the authorship. From what we
know of magical literature, to say nothing of pontifical dignity,
it is antecedently unlikely that it is the work of a Roman
bishop, more especially of such a bishop as Honorius. Eliphas,
Levi, who rightly sought to vindicate the Church of his child
hood, assailed, in the person of one of its sovereign pontiffs,
by an unintelligent accusation, but vindicated it badly as usual,
took a glance at the history of the time and discovered that
during the pontificate of Honorius there was an anti-pope set
up by Henry IV. of Germany, and that he was a man of evil life.
He immediately conjectured that this personage was the likely
author of the objectionable Grimoire . Again there is not a
particle of evidence for such a surmise, and it is un bien
vilain procdde, as M. Papus might say, to increase, without
good reason, the responsibility resting upon the memory of
the unhappy prelate in question.
1 "Some Books on Magi.c" Transactions of the Bibliographical Society, Vol. iii. Part 2.
105The Book of Ceremonial Magic
If we come to the facts, they are these. The first edition
of the Grimoire is said to have appeared in 1629, and it is not
likely that it was forged much earlier than the end of the
sixteenth century, being, roughly, nine hundred years after
the death of its supposed author. The canonical Pope, it must
be confessed, was a voluminous writer ; his sermons and his
vast correspondence have appeared in two, large volumes at
Paris,' under auspices which were unlikely, to admit even a
contemptuous reference to the forged constitution. There .is
none, accordingly, which is to be regretted from the stand-
point of bibliography. But the editor has further excluded with
the same silence another work much more reasonably attri-
buted, and to which no odium can attach. It is one also
which is important to our inquiry, and it is entitled Honorii
Pa,N, adversus tenebrarum Principem, et ejus Angelos Con-
jurationes ex originale Rome servato, Rome, 1529. The
authenticity of this work is evidently questioned by its ex-
clusion, and it is impossible to speak certainly concerning it, as,
on account of its extreme rarity, few public libraries, none
apparently in England, possess an example. But it is evidently
the formularies of exorcism, a rite of the Church and possessing
a considerable body of literature, to which even a Pope of past
ages might not inconceivably have contributed . However
this may be, the attribution in the one case will account for
it in the other. The book of Black Magic may be merely
a perversion of the orthodox conjurations, and if not that, is a
reprisal ; it is Sorcery revenging herself on a Pope who cast
out devils by representing him as the prince of those who
dealt with them.
Having said something to justify the Grimoire from
groundless condemnation, it is necessary now to add, on the
1 Horoy's BibliothecaPatristica Honorii III. Opera Omnia. Paris, 1879, 8vo.
io6
11
The Rituals of Black Magic -
authority of its own, evidence, that it is a malicious and some-
what clever impostyre, which was undeniably calculated to
deceive ignorant persons of its period who may have been
magically inclined, more especially ignorant priests, since it
pretends to convey the express sanction of the Apostolical
Seat for the operations of Infernal Magic and Necromancy.
The entire claim is set forth most curiously at the beginning
of the, pseudo-constitution, and . must be cited at considerable
length to convey its full force.
The Holy Apostolic Chair, unto which the keys of the
Kingdom of Heaven were given by those words that Christ
Jesus addressed to St. Peter : I give unto thee the Keys of the
Kingdom of Heaven, and unto thee alone the power of com-
manding the Prince of Darkness and his angels, who, as slaves
of their Master, do vwe him honour, glory and obedience, by
those other words of Christ Jesus : Thou shalt worship the
Lord thy God, and Him only shalt thou serve-hence by the
power ofthese Keys the Head of the Church has been made'the
Lord of Hell. -But seeing that until this present the Sovereign
Pontizffis have alone possessed the power of using invocations
and commanding Spirits, His Holiness Honorius the Third,
being moved by his pastoral care, has benignly desired to com-
municate the . methods and faculty of invoking and controlling
Spirits to his venerable Brethren in Jesus Christ, adding the
Conjugations which must be used in such case, the whole being
contained in the Bull which here follows.
HONORI US,
Servant of the Servants of God, unto all and each of our
venerable Brethren of the Holy Roman Church, Cardinals,
Archbishops, Bishops, Abbots ; unto all and each of our sons
107
IThe Book of Ceremonial Magic
in Jesus Christ, Priests, Deacons, Subdeacons, Acolytes, Exor-
cists, Cantors, Pastors, Clerks both Secular and Regular, Health
and Apostolic Benediction. In those days when the Son of
God, Saviour of the World, generated in the fulness of time,
and born, according to the flesh, of the Race of David, did live
on this earth, Whose Most Holy Name is Jesus, before which
the heavens, earth and hell do bend the knee ; we have seen
with what power He commanded demons, which power was also
transmitted to St . Peter by that utterance : Upon this rock I '
will build my Church, and the Gates of Hell shall not prevail
against it. These words were addressed to St. Peter as the
Head and Foundation of the Church . We then, who, by the
mercy of God, and despite the poverty of our merit, have suc-
ceeded to the Sovereign A postolate, and, as lawful successor of
St. Peter, have the Keys of the Kingdom of Heaven committed
to our hands, desiring to communicate the power of invoking,
and commanding Spirits, which hath been reserved unto us
alone, and our possessors did alone enjoy; wishing, I repeat,
by Divine inspiration, to share it with our venerable Brethren
and dear sons in Jesus Christ, and fearing lest in the exor-
cism of the possessed,' they might otherwise be appalled at the
frightful figures of those rebellious angels who in sin were cast
into the abyss, lest also they should be insufficiently learned in
those things which must be performed and observed, and that
those who have been redeemed by the blood of Jesus Christ
may not be tormented by any witchcraft or possessed by the
demon, we have included in this Bull the manner of their in-
vocation, which same must be observed inviolably. And because
it is meet that the ministers of the Altar should have authority
over the rebellious Spirits, we hereby depute unto them all
i This is an evasion of the Grimoire, which is no wise concerned with the offices of exorcism,
but with the conjuration of evil spirits for the usual purposes of magicians.
io8The Rituals of Black Magic
powers which we possess, in virtue of the Holy Apostolic Chair,
and ,we require them, by our Apostolic authority, to observe
what follows inviolably, lest by some negligence unworthy of
their character they should draw down on themselves the wrath
of the Most High.
The Grimorium T/erum has once been reprinted in the
French language.' Of the Italian version there `have been
2
two modern editions, both poorly produced The book of
True Black Magic is known only 'by the edition of 1750.
The Grand Grimoire reappeared at Nismes in 1823 'and is,
moreover, in all respects identical with the work entitled the
Red Dragon, of which there are several. examples.$ The
Grimoire of Honorius is exceedingly rare in the original, but
is better known by the reprints of 166o and 1670, though these
also are scarce. There is, finally, an edition dated 176o, and
this even commands a high price among collectors . It remains
to state that the Abb6 d'Artigny was presented about the
middle of the last century with an MS. copy of this Grimoire,
which was much more complete that the printed editions . He
gives no satisfactory account of it, nor can it be traced at this
day. Possibly it represented the transition of the Sworn Book
of Honorius into the Spurious Papal Constitution, which cer-
tainly reproduces the motive and moves in the atmosphere of
its prototype.
I Les Viritables Clavicules de Salomon. Tresor des Sciences Occultes, suivies dun Grand
Nombre des Secrets, et notamment de la Magic du Papillon Pert. N.D.
9 La Vera Clavicola del Re Salomone, Tesoro delk Science Occulte con molti Altri Segreti e
principalmonte La Cabala delta Farfalla Verde tradotte dalla Lingua Straniera alla Lingua
Italiana da Bestetti. Milano, x868. Also, with slight variations, Firenze, Armato Muzzi
editore, 188o.
For example, Le Dragon Rouge, ou l'Art de Commander les Esprits ci estes, atriens et
infernaux. A Milan, chez Gaspard Buffanelli. And, Le Veritable Dragon Rouge, plus la
Pouk Noire, edition augmentEe des secrets de la Reine Cleopdtre, secrets pour se rendre invisible,
secrets d'Artephius, 6°c. This is areprint of the rare so-called edition of 1521 and is possibly
still extant.
logThe Book of Ceremonial Magic
5. Minor and Spurious Rituals of Black Magic
To distinguish in a mass of forged literature certain books
as more spurious than others, seems at- first sight a needless
ingenuity of criticism. There are, however, some Rituals of
Black Magic which are merely the knavish speculations of
catchpenny booksellers, and there are others, anterior to the
period, and foreign to the centres, of collor age, which have
never exercised any influence, and are, in fact, generally
unknown. Both classes neither. possess a history nor have
contributed anything to their subject. Yet it does not follow
that they offer no points of curiosity or interest, and some
account of them must be given in this place.
The Verus Jesuilarum Libellus, or " True Magical Work
of the Jesuits, containing most powerful conjurations for all
evil spirits of whatever state, condition and office they are,
and a most powerful and approved conjuration of the Spirit
Uriel ; 1 to which is added Cyprian's Invocation of Angels,
and his Conjuration of the Spirits guarding Hidden Treasures,
together with a form for their dismissal,"-purports to have
been published at Paris in the Latin tongue, and in the. year
15o8. It was reprinted by Scheible at Stuttgart in 1845,
forming part of the curious collection of Faust documents
already mentioned. Finally, in the year 1875, the late Major
Herbert Irwin made, or procured privately, an English trans-
lation, which remains in MS. The date placed on the title-
page of the original edition at once betrays the imposture .
It will be almost needless to say that in the first decade of
1 The modern reprint of Scheible reads Ifsiel throughout, as does also the MS. English
translation. Supposing the latter to have followed the original edition, it would seem con-
clusive that the blunder-for such it evidently is-occurs also in that.
I10I
The Ritualq of Black Magic
the sixteenth century there were no Jesuits; the Society origi-
nated with St. Ignatius, who died in 1556, being two years
after the .confirmation of the Society by Pope Paul III. The
Conjurations are excessively curious . The first is addressed
to a spirit whose name is not indicated, but he is supposed to
have been obedient to Abraham and Isaac, and is directed
to bring the magician, out of the depths of the sea, so many
millions-the number is not specified and depends upon the
cupidity of the operator-of the best Spanish gold ; otherwise,
says the. Conjuration, I will condemn thy body (sic) and thy
soul. In the second formula, the spirit is cited by the know-
ledge and exorcising power of Agrippa, 1 which again puts
a definite limit to the antiquity of the collection, were it
otherwise necessary. The third Invocation is addressed to
the spirit Zayariel, who is conjured by Agla Sche,#,ert and the
great Jehova Podashocheia. The remainder, to the number
of sevenI in all, are nearly identical in character and precisely
in purpose, the demon being invariably required to bring that
which is desired by the operator from the depths of the sea,
or from the abyss of the waters, or from the spiritual abyss.
The Discharge or Absolution which concludes the series is
really an additional conjuration.
The Citation of St. Cyyrian is presumably an experiment
in what is distinguished as White Magic, seeing that it is ad-
dressed to an Angel who was the guest of Lot and Abraham .
The object being " help, in need,"; and this in all simplicity,
it is apparently appropriate for every strait in life, and should
be, therefore, noted for reference by those who may think
it worth while; it is too cumbrous and tedious for these pages.
A similar observation would apply only too truly to the Process
for the Magical Acquisition of Hidden Treasures, but it is
i Cornelius Agrippa died in 1535.
IIIThe Book of Ceremonial Magic'
.
much more complete than the rest and has so much connection
with the Summum Bonum, the desire of the eyes of all Cere-
monial Magic, that it may be held necessary to give it. It
is, however, an operation of Necromancy and will be found in
its proper place in the Second Part.' The Verus Jesuilarum
Libellus closes with a fuliginous conjuration of the entire
hierarchy of Infernus, which continues for many pages and
contains more unintelligible words than several combined
Grimoires. In the absence of all knowledge of its original
edition, it is impossible to throw any light upon this singular
imposture.
The Praxis Magica Fausli, or " Magical Elements of Dr.
John Faust, Practitioner of Medicine," claims to have been
printed from the original MS. in the Municipal Library of-
Weimar and is dated 15 7 1, at which period it must be respect-
fully affirmed that there was no Municipal Library in the
birthplace of Goethe. Furthermore, the existing collection
does not include the MS. Whether the original edition was
antedated cannot be certainly affirmed, as it is exceedingly
scarce, and I am4 acquainted with it only in the reprint of
Scheible and in an unprinted transcript by Major Irwin. The
work consists of a few curious plates, in the manner of the
seventeenth century, and a few unintelligible conjurations,
all exceedingly brief. The third of these exhorts the Evil
Spirit on the quaint ground that now it is the time of the
Great Name Tetragrammaton. The purpose. of citation is not
indicated ; the formuke are Christian, broken up by innumerable
crosses and by names and terms which defy conjecture as to.
their significance. The hierarchy of the spirit is determined by
the closing words : " I command thee, 0 Spirit Rumoar, even
by Lucifer, thy mighty sovereign."
1 Part II. c. 9.
112The Rituals of Black Magic
§ 6. The Black Pullet
The Black Pullet, the Druid ofMena ienne, Red Magic, or
the Cream of the Occult Sciences, with derivatives from the first
of these works, such as the Queen of the Hairy Flies, the
Green Butterfly, &c., form a class by themselves, and, with
one exception, they are quite unserious publications, which can
scarcely be called spurious, as they are almost without pretence .'
They belong to the late end of the eighteenth century . Dr.
Encausse, the head of the French Martinists, suggests that
they were all fabricated at Rome and infers-as seen previously
-that we owe them to the industry of priests, which seems to
follow somewhat loosely from the evidence, is characteristic 'of
himself and his school, and is indeed of much the same value
as the statement in Isis Unveiled, that the habitual practice of
Black Magic at the Vatican could be " easily proved."
The Black Pullet is far the most curious of its class and
there is indeed sufficient individuality in its narrative to lift it
much above the paltry impostures with which it connects. Its
chief occult interest centres in the series of talismanic rings
which it incorporates with the text, itself a species of magical
romance. It makes no claim to antiquity, except that it em-
bodies its wisdom, and it does not appeal to Solomon . In a
book of Black Magic, as it certainly is, though the Goetic
intention is disguised, such modesty makes for virtue. Many
of the Talismans seem to be original devices ;, at. least they
connect with nothing in occult symbolism known to the present
t Much depends, however, on the point of view of the critic. A work which, even in its
own country, seems almost unknown, Le Triple Vocabutaire Infernal, a Manual of Demono.
mania, by Finellan, defines the Cabalaa as the art of communicating with elementary spirits,
and adds that among the Grand Cabalas are included (i) That called the Green Butterfly ;
(2) That of the Black .Pullet; (3) That of, the Queen of Hairy Flies; and (4) That of the
Black Screech Owl. The works containing these mysteries are, it is said, exceedingly rare.
113 HThe Book of Ceremonial Magic
writer.' At the same time they are constructed in accordance
with the rules laid down by the Fourth Book attributed to
Cornelius Agrippa as regards infernal signatures .
The Black Pullet reappeared during its own period at
various dates, with slight alterations-once as the Treasure
of the Old Man of the Pyramids, when it was followed by a
sequel or companion under the title of the Black Screech Owl.
It has been reprinted within recent years at Paris in an edition
intended for bibliophiles but bearing no indications of biblio-
graphical research. Though modest in the claims which have
been specified, the title of the original edition is portentous
,enough, namely, "The Black Pullet, or the Hen with the
Golden Eggs, comprising the Science of Magical Talismans
and Rings, the Art of Necromancy and of the Kabalah, for
the Conjuration of /Erial and Infernal Spirits, of Sylphs,
Undines and Gnomes, serviceable for the acquisition of the
Secret Sciences, for the Discovery of Treasures, for obtaining
power to command all beings and to unmask all Sciences and
Bewitchments. The whole following the Doctrines of Socrates,
Pythagoras, Zoroaster, Son of the Grand Aromasis, and other
philosophers whose works in MS. escaped the conflagration
of the Library of Ptolemy. Translated from the Language
of the Magi and that of the Hieroglyphs by the Doctors
Mizzaboula-Jabamia, Danhuzerus, Nehmahmiah, Judahim, and
Eliaeb. Rendered into French by A. J. S. D. R. L. G. F."
The place of publication is Egypt, which probably stands 'for
Rome, and the. date is 740, meaning 1740, which, however,
is untrue, as we shall see. It may be said at once that there
is no pretence in the text to fulfil, the magnificent assurances
of the title.
The preface entreats that the Black Pullet may not be
confounded with the collections of reveries and errors which
"4The Rituals of Black Magic
so many have sought to accredit by announcing supernatural
effects. This request, after due consideration, most readers.
will find it impossible to grant. The work, it has been said,
is a romance, and the first thing which it makes clean' is that
even the addition of a thousand years to the date in ,the title
is insufficient.' It is the narrative of a man who 1' formed part
of the expedition to Egypt," and was "an officer in the army
of the 'genius." The reference is, of course, to Napoleon and
at best the date of composition is little more than a' century
ago. While in Egypt, the narrator was sent upon an exi. -dition
to the Pyramids, accompanied by some mounted c asseurs.
They lunched under the shadow of the "grand c,'lossus,"
when they were, attacked by a horde of Arabs of th desert ;
the comrades of the writer,were slain and `even he was left
for dead 'upon the ground. On returning to consciou ness, he
surrendered himself to mournful reflections in the i mediate
anticipation of his end and delivered a valedictory ad ress to
the setting sun, when ,a stone was rolled back in the yramid,
and a venerable man issued forth, who was proclaim d to be
a Turk by his turban . This personage did not fail , to iscover
the corpses which strewed the desert, nor to ident fy their
nation. When the officer in his turn was exam'ned, he
manifested life by kissing the hand df the ancient m n, who,
superior to all prejudices which might have been di ated to
the ordinary Mussulman by patriotism or religion, t s sk pity
on him, revived him by 'a wonderful cordial which put the
wounded man upon his feet, and he followed his reserver
into the Pyramid, wherein was the home of the arlci nt man
and a mighty house of Magic. There were vast h Us and
endless galleries, subterranean chambers piled with t easures,
1 It is not impossible that the middle of the nineteenth century may be the pe od to which
it should be assigned.
115The Book of Ceremonial Magic
apparitions of blazing lamps, ministering spirits innumerable,
magic suppers ; above all things there was the Black Pullet .
In a word, diurnal life was illustrated throughout by the super-
natural ; it was a methodised version of Aladdin with an inner
meaning by Astaroth. The sage himself proved to be the
sole heir of the Magi and the makers of those Egyptian hiero-
glyphics which are the "despair of the learned," while, not
least, he was himself in quest of an heir, for he felt that he
was about to pass away. In fine, the French officer, having
acquired the Turkish language by means of a grammar which
had its root in sorcery, and being thus enabled to converse
with his protector, which on the whole seems superfluous;
seeing that his protector possessed a talisman which communi-
cated immediate proficiency in all tongues, was instructed in
the powers and wonders of twenty-two talismanic figures and
the rings corresponding to these, as well as in the secret of
the manufacture of the Black Pullet, which possessed more
skill in gold-finding than the divining rod in the discovery,of
water. After these _ instructions, in spite of many prayers, and
the ministries of the genius Odous, the just man expired upon
a sofa, 'while the fortunate kinsman in philosophy swooned at
the feet of his benefactor. In due course, accompanied by the
genius' who had been transferred to his service, the French
officer managed to depart from Egypt, laden with treasures,
and with the ashes of the sage in a costly uen . He took
ship for Marseilles, stilled a tempest on the voyage and re-
turned to his native country. He made his abode in Provence,
spending his days in experiments with the Black Pullet, or in
study, meditation and rambling. He undertook at length to
write this memorial of his good fortune, in which he threatens
the publishers of any pirated edition to adorn them, by means
of a talisman, with ears six inches longer than those of
ri6The Rituals of Black Magic
Midas. But this does not seem 'to have prevented 1he pub-
lishers.
The Black Pullet disclaims all connection with Black Magic
and is duly to be identified therewith, firstly by-its characters
and secondly by their pretended power over evil spirits
though it should be observed that the infernal beings men-
tioned in the title are not on the surface devils but Sala-
manders-that is to say, elementary Spirits of Fire. But
.while it thus transcends Black Magic--if it is req .Iisite to
make the distinction-it is not superior to plagiarism and
hence incorporates many pages of the Comte de Gaoalis.
For the evocation of the genii who served the Old Man o f
the Pyramid it suffices to say THOMATOS, BENESSER, FLIANTER.
You are then liable to be encompassed by thirty-three several
-intelligences: To obtain their consideration say : LITAN, IZER,
OSNAS, and they will bow down before you, individually remark-
ing : NANTHER1 The words' SOUTRAM, UBARSINENS' ill cause
them to transport you through the air wheresoever you are
inclined. Upon the utterance of the one word RA AM they
will return you to your own abode. It is necessary, however,
to be fortified by the talismans and rings of the - m ter, but
they can. be obtained by 'a, cheap process. In the c binet of
the Old Man of the Pyramid they were formed of th precious
metals and were resplendent with gems, but_ the ar held to
answer all practical purposes if the rings are co posed of
bronzed steel and the talismans of satin,,in strict a cordance
with. the description which here follows.
7. Talismans of the Sage of the Pyram
I. Serves for 'the conjuration of celestial an infernal
powers. It should be embroidered in silver upon sky-blue
II7I
The Book of Ceremonial Magic
satin. The evoking words are SmAs, ETAR, BESANAR, at which
multitudes of spirits will appear.
II. Gives the love and complaisance of the entire female
sex. -, It should be embroidered in silver on black satin . The
evoking words are NADES, SURADIS, MANINER, pronounced with
TALISMAN I. TALISMAN 11.
X&N
SAW
The characters should be graven on the inner The characters should he graven on the inner
side ofthe Ring side of the Ring
the ring,--which should be on the middle finger of the left
hand-pressed against .the lips. This conjuration ensures the
manifestation of a genius with rose-coloured wings, who, if
addressed with the words SADER, PROSTAS, SOLASTER, Will
traverse all space to transport you the lady of your heart,
though she were the queen of the Caliph's seraglio . At the
words MAMMES, LAHER, she will be removed by four slaves.
It will be observed that this is occult ribaldry .
WThe Rituals of Black Magic
III. Discovers all treasures and ensures their possession.
The figure of the talisman .should be embroidered in gold upon
green satin. The words ONAiM, ' PERANThS, RASONASTOS, will
cause the appearance of seven genii au teint bazane, each of
TALISMAN III.
dxf
whom will pour out golden ducats from great bags of hide
at the feet of the sorcerer, the operations of this Grimoire
being performed upon a huge scale. Item, a black hooded
bird will be perched upon the shoulder of each spirit.
IV. Discovers the most hidden secrets and enables its
possessor to penetrate everywhere unseen. The talisman
119The Book of, Ceremonial Magic
should be of violet satin, with the figures embroidered in silver .
It must be held in the left hand, on` which also the ring should
be worn, and should be placed close to the ear, pronouncing
the words NITRE, RADOU, SUNANDAM, when a distinct voice
will utter the desired mystery.
TALISMAN IV. TALISMAN V.
Wp V& L , CJ &Tdc~ft*% fey
The characters should be graven on the outer The characters should be graven on Me outer
side of the Ring side of the Ring
V. Will make the most taciturn man unbosom himself to
its possessor, whose enemies will also be forced to confess all
their machinations. The talisman should be of gold-coloured
satin with the figures embroidered in gold. By placing the
ring on the little finger of the left hand, .the talisman against
the right ear, and by pronouncing the words NOCTAR, RAIHAN,
the most discreet man-as I have indicated-will be compelled
to unveil his utterly secret thoughts. The addition of the word
120The Rituals of Black Magic
BIRANTHER will force the enemies of the possessor to declare
their projects aloud.
VI. Sets to work enough genii for the immediate achieve-
ment of any work which the possessor may desire to undertake,
and for the stoppage of any which may oppose him . The talis-
TALISMAN VI. TALISMAN VII.
The characters should begraveri on the outer The characters should be graven on the inner
side of the Ring side of the Ring
man should be of lilac satin with the figures embroidered in
shaded silk. The magical words are ZORAMI, ZAITUX, ELASTOT.
VII. Has the power to destroy everything ; to cause the
fall of hail, thunderbolts and stars from heaven ; to occasion
earthquakes, storms and so forth. At the same time it pre-
serves the friends of the possessor from accidents. The figure
of the talisman should be embroidered in silver upon poppy-red
satin. The magical words are : (i) DITAU, H URANDOS, for
works of destruction ; (2) RIDAs, TALIMOL, to command the
121The Book of Ceremonial Magic
elements ; (3) ATROSIs, NARPIDA, for the fall of hail, &c.
(4) UUSUR, ITAR, for earthquakes ; (5) HISPEN, TROMADOR,
for hurricanes and storms ; (6) PARANTHES, HISTANOS, for the
preservation of friends.
VIII. Gives invisibility, even to the eyes of genii, so that
TALISMAN VIII.
The characters shouldbe graven onthe outer
side ofthe Ring
God alone shall witness the actions of the possessor . It is
accompanied by the power of penetrating everywhere and pass-
ing through brick walls. The magical words are BENATIR,
CARARKAU, DEDOS, ETINARML For each operation, the ring
must be placed upon a different finger of the right hand . The
talisman is of yellow satin embroidered . with black silk.
IX. Transports the possessor to any part of the world, and
that without danger. The potent words are RADITUS, POLAS-
122The Rituals of Black Magic
TRIEN, TERPANDU, OSTRATA, PERICATUR, ERMAS. The talisman
is of puce-coloured satin embroidered with gold.
X. Opens all locks at a touch, whatever precautions have
been taken to ,secure them. The magical words are SARITAP,
TALISMAN IX. TALISMAN X.
The characters should begraviin on theinner The characters should be graven on the outer
side of the Ring side of foeRing
PERNISOX, OTTARIM. The talisman is of deep blue satin em-
broidered with silver.
Xi. Sets the possessor in any desired house without the
preliminary of entering and reads the thoughts of all persons,
so that they can, be helped or harmed at pleasure. The talis-
man is of,light grey satin embroidered with gold. To know
thoughts, place it on your ' head, breathe upon the ring, and
say : 0 TAROT, NIZAEL, ESTARNAS, TANTAREZ. To serve those
who are worthy: ,VISTA, SAPER,,, VISNOS, and they will forthwith
123The Book of Ceremonial Magic
enjoy every kind of prosperity. To punish your enemies or
evil persons : XATROS, NIFER, ROXAS, -TORTOS, and they will
be immediately delivered to frightful torments .
XI I. Destroys all projects formed'against the possessor and
compels rebellious spirits. The talisman is of rose-coloured
TALISMAN XI. TALISMAN XII.,
net"
O X-Clu-/JOa,
AP (A
The characters should be graven on the outer The characters should be graven on the inner
side of the Ring side of the Ring
satin embroidered with silver. It should be placed upon a
table, the left hand imposed upon it ; the ring should be on
the middle finger of the right hand, and the operator, with
bent head, should repeat in a low voice the words : SENAPOS,
TERFITA, ESTAMOS, PERFITER, NOTARIN.
XIII. Endows the possessor with every virtue and talent,
as well as with the desire to do good . All substances of evil
quality can be rendered excellent by means of it. For the first
124The Rituals of Black Magic
advantage, it is sufficient to raise up the talisman, having the
ring upon the first joint of the third finger of the right hand,
and to pronounce the words : TURAN, ESTONos, FUZA. For
the second, say : VAZOTAS, TESTANAR. The talisman should be
of saffron-coloured satin embroidered with sil*er.
TALISMAN XIII. TALISMAN XIV.
W
am
U
i to
# ~rief % - 6toj% tA* Xe-% 0IM3 Y4 % 2 %
The characters should be graven on the outer The characters should be graven an the outer
- sideof The Ring side of the Ring
I
XIV. Gives the knowledge of all minerals and vegetables,
with their virtues and properties ; gives also the universal medi-
cine and the faculty of healing all sick persons. The talisman
is of orange-coloured satin embroidered with silver . It should
be worn upon the breast and the ring in a locket (kerchief)
round the neck, secured by means of a ribbon of flame-coloured
silk. The operative words are : RETERREM, SALIBAT, CRATARES,
H ISATER. .
115The Book of Ceremonial Magic
XV. Gives immunity from the most ferocious animals ; gives
the means of overcoming them ; gives the knowledge of their
language ; and drives mad animals away. The talisman should
be of deep green satin embroidered with gold. For the first
three objects, say HOCATOS, IMORAD, SURATER, MARKILA. For
the last : TRUMANTREM, RICONA, ESTUPIT, OXA.
TALISMAN XV. TALISMAN XVI.
The characters should he graven 'on theouter The characters should be graven on the outer
side of the Ring side of the Ring
I
XVI. Gives discernment for the good or bad intentions of
any person. The talisman is of black satin embroidered with
gold. I t should be placed upon the heart and the ring on
the little finger of the right hand. The words are : CROSTES,
FURINOT, KATIPA, GARINOS.
XVI I. Gives all talents and a profoundknowledge off' -every
art, so that the possessor will outshine the toil-worn experts-
126The Rituals of Black Magic
though unqualified by scholarship. Hereof are the advantages
of an art which-speaking generally concerning it-is nothing
except practical and the quality of its claims is not strained.
The talisman, which must be carried on the person, should. be
of white satin embroidered with black silk . The operative
words are : RITAS, ONALUN, TERSORIT, OMBAS, SERPITAS,
TALISMAN XVII. TAUs Aai XVIII.
I
The characters should be gravenon the inner The characters should be graven on the inner
side ofthe Ring side of the Ring
QUITATHAR, ZAMARATH, specifying the art which it is desired
to possess.
XV III. 'Gives good fortune in any lottery. The talisman
is of cerise-coloured satin embroidered with gold and silver.
It should be bound upon the left arm by .means of a white
ribbon, and the ring must be on the little finger of the right
hand. The words are : RoKES for a winning number, PILATUS
for an ambes-ace, ZOTOAS for a denary, TTLITAS for a quater-
127The Book of Ceremonial Magic
nary, XATANITOS, for a quinary, being careful to pronounce all
the words at the quine-an instruction which I do not quite
grasp, but if the art or science of the lottery is followed at this
day under the old laws, I commend the question to those who
are experts therein. This is. one of the lesser mysteries of
TALISMAN XIX. TALISMAN XX.
Y w
F
rc,,, W_
w
c~
e0~,o j ~j o.v~ rr
The characters should be graven on the outer Thecharacters should be graven on the outer
sideof the Ring sideof the Ring
occultism. At cards the same potent formula should be
repeated when shuffling for self or partner. Before beginning,
touch your left arm with your right hand in the neighbourhood
of the talisman, and kiss the ring. These little contrivances
can be effected, says the honest Grimoire, without exciting the
notice of your opponent.
XIX. Gives the power of directing all the infernal hosts
against the enemies of its possessor. The talisman is of
128The Rituals of Black Magic
greyish-white satin, shaded. , It may be worn in any manner,
and the words are : OSTHARIMAN, VISANTIPAROS, NOCTATUR.
XX. Gives the knowledge Of
THE MAGIC ROD ACCORDING TO THE
BLACK PULLET
the counsels of Infernus and the
means of rendering its projects
abortive, but whether for the
ultimate health and weal of the
operator's soul there is no guaran-
tee offered. The talisman is of
red satin, with the centre em-
broidered in gold, the border' in
silver and the figures in,black -and
white silk. It should be worn
upon the breast and the ring on
the first joint of the little finger
of the left hand. The words Then ekaraeters should be inscribedupon the
are : ACTATOS, CATIPTA, BE- Pod with Chinese Ink
JOURAN, ITAPAN, MARNUTUS.
The range of human ambition
recognised by Ceremonial Magic
being always somewhat restricted,
it is not surprising that the offices
of these talismans frequently over-
lap one another, or that some of
them correspond very closely to
the powers ascribed to the Magus
by the transcendental science of THE GOEPIC CIRCLE OF THE BLACK PULLET
the Arbatel. The talismans are preceded, in the original by
-the figure of a magical rod, stained, says the letterpress which
accompanies it, with the blood of a lamb and having the form
of a serpent. The description is 'somewhat obscure, but the
129 1The Book of Ceremonial Magic
wand must be 'apparently flexible, so that it can be bent at need,
and the mouth and tail joined by -means of a golden chain, thus
forming a circle. It will be observed that it is the old symbol,
the great and 'mystic symbol, but in what strange company
has it fallen ! The wand should be six feet long and when
bent can be used as a, circle of evocation. There is also a
figure of the grand magical circle, but it is not described in the
text. There are thus twenty-two figures in all, and the in-
clusion of the word TAROT in the list of evoking terms is not
without significance in this connection. A certain correspond-
ence between the 'talismans and the Tarot Trumps is indeed
unmistakable, at least .in some instances, and seems to indicate
that, the work has a more definite occult aspect than would
appear at first' sight. It is the symbolism of the Trumps
Major redirected towards the Powers of the Deep.
§ 8. The Gold-Finding Hen
I must pass, however, to the incubation of the gold-finding
hen, which is the head and crown of the proceedings . The
grand Oromasis, the father of Zoroaster, was the first person
who possessed one of these marvellous fowls, which are hatched
from an egg in the following manner. . Take aromatic woods,
such as aloes, cedar, orange, citron, laurel, iris-root, with rose-
leaves dried in the sun. Place them in a golden chafing-dish
pour balsamic oil over them ; add the finest incense and clear
gum. Next say : ATHAS, SOLINAM, ERMINATOS, PASAIM ; set a
glass over the chafing-dish ; direct the rays of the sun thereon,
and the wood will kindle, the glass will melt-obviously by the
magical power which resides in the operation-a sweet odour
will fill the place and the compost will burn speedily to -ashes.
Place_ these ashes in a golden egg while still red-hot ; lay the
130The Rituals of , Black Magic
egg upon a black cushion ; cover it with a bell:-glass of faceted
rock-crystal ; then lift up your eyes and stretch your arms
towards heaven and cry :: 0 SANATAPER, ISMAI, NONTAPILUS,
ERTIYALER, CAI+IOPISTus. Expose the glass to, the most fierce
rays of the sun till it seems enveloped in flame, till , the egg
ceases to be visible, till a slight,vapour rises. . Presently you will
discern a black pullet-just beginning to move, when if you say
BINUSAS, TESTIPAS, it will take wings and nestle in your bosom.
It is not said that anything disastrous follows, but rather a cer-
tain advantage, which will appear in the next paragraph.
While this is. the ,true process of the Pyramids and easy no .
doubt to an heir direct of Oromasis, :it is obvious that it has its.
difficulties to those born merely under the common moon of
sorcery, and, merciful, like all its companions, to human limita-
tions, the Grimoire provides an alternative method suitable to
persons of small means. Take an unspotted egg ; expose it
tothe meridian rays of the sun ; then select the blackest hen
that you can meet with ; if it have any coloured feathers,
pluck them. Should the. Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals not intervene opportunely, contrive to hood this bird
with a kind of black . bonnet, drawn over the eyes so that it
cannot see.. Leave it the use of its beak. Shut it up in a box,
also, lined with some black material, and large enough to hold
it comfortably. Place the box in a room where no light of
day can penetrate ; give food only in the night to the fowl ;
see that no noise disturbs it, and set it to hatch the egg. As
everything will be black to the bird, its imagination, which is
likely enough, will be overwhelmed by the sense of black-
ness, and if it should survive the incarceration, it will ultimately ,
incubate a perfectly black chicken, provided only that the
operator by his wisdom and virtue is worthy to participate in
such sacred and divine mysteries. It does not appear how or.
I3IThe Book of Ceremonial Magic
why a fowl incubated after this uncomfortable fashion should
have a particular instinct for detecting the places wherein gold
is hidden, but such is the faculty attributed to it, and it can
only be concluded that the Black Pullet is a degree more foolish
than its idle company of Grimoires.
The simplified process did not, however, in the opinion of
sorcery, seem the last word which it was possible to say upon
the subject. Despite the threatened vengeance of the heir of
Oromasis, the mystery was adapted by the later editors of the
Rod Dragon and reappears as the Grand Cabala, without which
no other can succeed. In this, its last transformation, it becomes
a recipe for evoking the devil which seems to breathe the true
spirit of Goetic genius. Its success, as I must premise, will
depend upon a recollected and devotional spirit in the operator,
together with a clean conscience ; otherwise, in place of com-
manding the evil spirit, the latter will command him . This
understood, the process itself is simple. You have merely to
secure a black hen which has never been -crossed by the male
bird and to do this. in such a manner that it shall not cackle ; it
is best therefore to seize it in its sleep, clutching it by the neck, ;
but not more than is necessary to prevent it from crying. You
must repair to the highroad, walk till you come to a cross-way
and there, on the stroke of midnight, describe circle with a
cypress rod; place yourself in the midst thereof and tear the
bird in twain, pronouncing three times the words, Euphas,
Metahim, frugativi et appellavi. Next turn to the East, kneel
down, recite a prayer and conclude it with the Grand Appella-,
tion, when the Unclean Spirit will appear to you in a scarlet
surcoat, a yellow vest and breeches of pale green . His head
will resemble that of a dog, but his ears will be those of an ass,
with two horns above them ; he will have the legs and hoofs of
a calf. He will ask for your orders, which you will give as you
132The Rituals of Black Magic
please, and as he cannot do otherwise than obey, you may
become rich on the spot and thus the happiest of men. Such
at least is the judgment of the Grimoire. Whether the victim
of the process is to be torn in pieces alive does not explicitly
THE APPARITION OF THE•GRAND CABALA
appear, but may be inferred from the initial precaution. This
being the case, I have so modified the procedure that, in case
it should be tried by a fool in these more civilised days, he will
have only his pains for the trouble-by the hypothesis of the
ceremonial art. This is therefore a word to the fool .
133Hyde Register, British Museum, Eleventh Century.11
raPART II
THE COMPLETE GRIMOIREDEVIL FROM HEARNE'S PRINT OF
THE " DESCENT INTO HELL."
Engraved by Michael Burghers, c. 1676.CHAPTER I
tCf,e preparation of the .u Aerator
Concerning the Love of God
HE; rites of so-called Transcendental Magic' are, ex
T
hypothesis divine and religious rites, and the counsels,
spiritual;.and moral, which are found. in its instructions
are, in their meagre and puerile way, the vulgarised counsels
of perfection, whatever element of sovereign contra-reason may
obtain in its experiments." The Composite Rituals, despite
the result of their analysis, also- partake largely of the nature
of substituted religious observances, at times Judaistic, at times
Christian. In both cases this fact is readily intelligible; to
communicate with the fabled Spirits of the Firmament and to
practise.an art which offers to its adepts the regeneration of
Enoch, King of the Inferior World,2 who was not, for God
took him, may well demand a high degree of sanctity from its
candidate, to-whatever ends it may lead him ; while to dominate
the-so-called Spirits of the Elements, the Kabalistic Klifhotka
and the Evil_ Demons, it is reasonable to assume that the
I The analysis of the Arbatel ofMagic in Part I. establishes this point, but the following
passages may, be cited in support of the statement.' "In all things call upon the Name
of the Lord, and without prayer unto God, through His only-begotten Son, do not thou under-
take to do or to think anything." Aph. z. "Let the word of God never depart from thy
mouth" 16. Aph. 3. "Look unto God in all things." 13. Aph. 4. "Desire, from God
alone." 16. Aph. ii. "Before all things, be watchful in this, that your name bewritten in
Heaven." 16.
° The secret of this Regeneration is promised to the adept in Arbatel, Aph. 24-
J,39The Book of Ceremonial Magic
Magus must be free from common weakness, from common
vice' and must be fortified by the grace and favour of the
superior world. Given the magical standpoint in each case,
the conditions essential to operation seem, in this respect, above
challenge. Its recommendations, however, were more especially
of times and seasons ; they were for the work of the art in
hand rather than for the high and transcendental art -of holy
life. But it will assuredly appear at first sight a bizarre
anomaly that Black Magic should involve also religious observ-
ances and should exact similar conditions, both inward and
outward, from those who would undertake its enterprises. It
is not, as generally supposed, either Christianity a rebours or
a reversed religion of Israel ; it is not the intentional profana-
tion of religious ritual and observance ; it is something less
outrageous but logically more insensate ; so far as it has re-
course to such ritual and such observance, it is not to do out-
rage to God in the interests of diabolism, but to derive power
and virtue from above for the more successful control of Evil
Spirits, and this obtains indifferently whether the purpose of the
operator be otherwise lawful or not.
The Divine Love, says the book of True Black Magic,'
must precede the acquisition of the Science of Solomon, son
of King David, who said : The beginning and Key of my
Wisdom are the fear of God, to do Him honour, to adore
Him with great contrition of heart, and to invoke His aid in
all our intentions and aspirations ; which fulfilling, God will
lead us into the good way.3
To account for this, anomaly 't is insufficient to say that
1 "To overcome and subjugate the elementary spirits, we must never yield to their
characteristic defects. . . . In a word, we must overcome them in their strength without ever
being overcome by their weaknesses."-GLIPHAS Lilvi, Rituel do la Haute Magie, c. 4.
s Book I. c. i.
* An adapted rendering of The Key of Solomon, Book I. c. i.
140The Preparation of the Operator
the book of True Black Magic is simply the Key of Solomon
adapted to Goetic intentions. - I n the first place, as already
seen, it is impossible to read the Goetic intention out of either
of the Clavicles ; and, in the second place, the same character-
istics are found in' the Grimoires which derive least of all from
the Clavicles, namely, that of Honorius, and that called the
Grand Grimoire. To meditate continually on the undertaking
and to centre every hope in the infinite goodness of the Great
Adonai, is the rule established by the latter as the first principle
of success.'
Nor does the insensate nature of the processes of Black
Magic offer explanation by itself. The attempt to propitiate
the Deity by means of prayers, sacrifices and abstinence,
and thus to obtain the Divine assistance for the successful
consummation of hideous offences and preposterous or impos-
sible undertakings, is, of course, madness ; for the God acknow
ledged and invoked by Goetic Magic is not the Principle of
Evil, as the myth of Modern Satanism supposes, but the
"terrible and venerable Deity" Who destroyed the power of
the rebellious angels-alternatively the Jehovah of the Jewish
rituals and the Trinity of, the Christian magical cycle. The
insane observance followed in reality from the interpretation
placed by Goetic Theurgy on the fundamental doctrine of
Practical Magic, namely, the power of Divine words to compel
the obedience of all spirits to those who could pronounce them .3
1 Grand Grimoire, Book I. c. n
s To do evil becauseftt is pleasing to the Prince of Evil did not enter into the conception
of Sorcery. Refinements of this kind are of late date, and mostly of French invention . The
sorcerer who sought to do evil and had recourse for assistance to Satan was actuated, by no
recondite motive; he ministered merely to his own propensities for lust, wealth or revenge.
Heused Satan as an instrument, treated him and his inferiors as slaves, and always reckoned
ultimately to elude the dangers of such dealings.
a The doctrine is summarised in a sentence by l liphas LBvi, when he declares that the
virtue of things has created words. Cornelius Agrippa refers it to Platonic teaching, affirming
that a certain power or We belonging to the idea underlies the "form of the signification,"
141The Book of Ceremonial Magic
Collections of these words and names . were recited as invoking
and binding forms, and, incorporated into a suitable setting
of official prayers, were used in. all magical ceremonies. Black
Magic was sometimes their application to more unlawful pur-
poses and sometimes to the same purposes. The utterance
of the Divine Name, which was supposed to make the devils
tremble and place them at the will of the Magus, was at least
equally powerful, it was argued, to enforce their obedience
for a purpose in consonance with their own nature. ~ Behind
this there lay also the tacit assumption that it was easier to
control demons than to persuade angels. Then seeing that
prayer to God and the invocation of the Divine Names pre-
suppose a- proper, spirit of reverence, devotion and love as
the condition upon which prayer is heard, it became a condi=
tion in Goetia. The first impossibility required of the adept
in Black Magic is therefore that he should love God before
he bewitches his neighbour ; that he should put all his hopes
in God before he makes pact with Satan ; that, in a word,
he should be good in order to do evil.
§ 2. Concerning Forilude
The spiritual intention of the operator being thus deter-
mined, his next step was the acquisition of the mental attitude
appropriate to his future work. We may picture him in the
traditional state of the sorcerer-poor, proscribed, envious,
ambitious, and having no capacity for legitimate enterprises .
Unable to earn money, he hankers after hidden treasures, and
haunts those -spots up and down the country-side which are
reputed to conceal them. He has done this presumably for
that is, the voice or word, whence he also says that Magicians regard words as the '0rays of
things." De Occulta Philosophia, Book I. c. 70. Compare also his rendering of the Platonic
doctrine that the form comes first from the idea. Ibid., c. rg.
142The Preparation of the Operator
a' long time before determining to betake himself to Magic,
but the earth will not yield up her hoards, for the gnomes
and the Earth-Spirits, the Alastors and the Demons,,of the
Solitudes, stand guard over the secrets of dead misers when
the human ghost has ceased to walk in the neighbourhood .
He does not long hesitate when he learns that the Grimoires
of Black Magic are full of darksome rites and fell, mysterious
words which compel or expel those guardians. The Church
and State may threaten him with a fire for his flesh and a
fire for his soul, but by watchfulness and secrecy he hopes to
elude the one, and the other is a distant danger. Obviously,
however, in order to reach his determination,, he must arm
himself with 'intrepidity and prudence, and this is the first
counsel of his guides to the Sanctum Regnum of Goetia.
0 men ! 0 impotent mortals!" cries the author of the
Grand Grimoire,l "tremble at your own temerity when you
blindly aspire to the possession of a science so profound . Lift
up your minds beyond your limited sphere, and learn of me
that before you undertake anything it is_ necessary that you
should become firm and immovable, besides being scrupulously
attentive in the exact observation, step by step, of all things
whatsoever that I shall tell you, without which precautions
every operation will, turn to your disadvantage, confusion and
total destruction ; while, on the contrary, by following my in-
junctions with precision, you will rise from your meanness and
poverty, achieving a complete success in all your enterprises.
Arm yourselves, therefore, with intrepidity, prudence, wisdom
and virtue, as qualifications for this grand and illimitable work,
in which I have passed sixty-and-seven years, toiling night -and
day for the attainment of success in so sublime an object."'
1 Book I. C. 2.
2 The speakerispseudo-Solomon.
1431
The. Book of Ceremonial Magic
One . would think that there were, shorter roads to wealth and
the satisfaction of the other common appetites .
§ 3. Concerning Continence and Abstinence
The Fourth Book of Occult Philosophy, referred to Cornelius
Agrippa, but composite in character and spurious in attribution,
as already seen, gives an exceedingly curious explanation of the
rule of sanctity prescribed by all forms of Ceremonial Magic .
The instruments used in the Art are ineffective without con-
secration. The act of consecration is the act by which virtue
is imparted to them, and this virtue derives from two sources,
the power of sanctification residing in Divine Names and in
the prayers which incorporate them, and the power of sancti-
fication residing in the holiness of the person consecrating.'
An indispensable part of this holiness was the preservation
of chastity for a defined-but, it should be observed, a limited--
period preceding operation, and it was to be combined with
a fast of graduated severity. In their directions concerning
these points the Rituals of Black Magic differ little from their
prototypes, the earlier Keys of Solomon, the work of pseudo-
Agrippa,Q or The Magical Elements of Peter de Abano. Here
is the direction of the Neophyte which occurs in the Grand
1 Here the Fourth Book of Occult Philosophy merely reproduces the instruction of the
genuine work. "Consecration is a lifting up of experiments, by which a spiritual soul, being
drawn by proportion and conformity, is infused into the matter of our works according to the
tradition of Magical Art rightly and lawfully prepared, and our work is vivified by the spirit of
understanding. The efficacy of consecration is perfected by two things especially, viz., the
virtue of the person himself consecrating and the virtue of the prayer itself. In the person are
required holiness of life and a power to consecrate. The former, nature and desert perform';
the latter is acquired by imitation and dignification." Book III. c. 62. The virtue of prayer
derives from its institution by God, the ordinance of the Church, or the commemoration which
it may make of sacred things.
s So also in the Third Book De Occulta Philosophia, which is especially devoted to Cere-
monial Magic, the student is directed to abstain "from- all those things which infect either
mind or spirit," and above all from idleness and luxury, "for the soul being suffocated by the
144The . Preparation of the Operator
Grimoire : "You must abstain during an entice quarter of
the moon from the society of females, so as to protect yourself
from the possibility of impurity. You must commence your
magical quarter at the same moment with that of the luminary
itself, -byy a pledge to the Grand Adonai, who is the Master
of all Spirits, to. make no more than two collations daily, that
is to say, in every twenty-four hours of the said quarter of the
Moon, which collations should be taken at noon and midnight,
or, if it better please you, at seven o'clock in the morning and
at the corresponding hour in the evening, using the following
prayer previously to each repast during the whole of the said
quarter :-
PRA YER
I implore Thee, 0 Thou Grand and Powerful ADONAY,
Master of all Spirits ! I beseech Thee, 0 ELOIM ! I implore
Thee, 0 JEHOVAH ! 0 Grand ADONAY, I give unto Thee my
soul, my heart, my inward parts, my hands, my feet,' my desires,
my entire being! 0 Grand ADONAY, deign to be favourable
unto me ! So be it. Amen.
Then take your repast, disrobe as seldom and sleep as little
as possible during the whole of the said period, but meditate
continually on your undertaking, and centre all your hopes in
the infinite goodness of the Great Adonay.1
The Grimoire ofHonorius, which is intended exclusively for
persons in Holy Orders, restricts the period of fasting to three
body and the lust thereof, can discern nothing that is celestial," c. 55. The fourth book merely
says: "Let the manwho would receive an oracle from the good spirits be chaste, pure and
confessed." Compare Peter de Abano : "The operator should be clean and purified for thee
space of nine days before beginning the work ; he should be confessed also, and should receive
the Holy Communion."
i Grand Grimoire, Book I. C. 2.
145,The Book of Ceremonial Magic
days, as will be seen later on, and makes no condition of con-
tinence in those -who are devoted to celibacy. The Grimorium
Verum prescribes a similar period and adds that the fast should
be most austere, that human society and human communications
must be avoided as much as possible, but those of women espe-
cially. The Book of True Black Magic varies the instruction
as follows :' If the Priest-Exorcist would succeed in operation,
he must, when all things else are prepared, abstain from every
labour of soul and body, from much eating and drinking, from
all luxury, from all vice, and he must meditate on those things
which he is about to put in practice for nine complete days
before undertaking the work ; his assistants-if any-must
do in like manner, so that all may be truly fulfilled. Let
them begin by the following prayer, which should -be recited
twice in the night and once in the day.
PRA YER
O Lord God Almighty, be Thou favourable unto us, though
unworthy to lift our eyes to Heaven by reason of the multitude
ofour ofences ! 0 God all-merciful, Who wiliest not the death
of a sinner, but rather his true conversion, bestow Thy grace
on us ! b Lord, 0 God, full of compassion, aid us in ,this
work which, we are about to perform, that Thy Name may be
blessed for ever! Amen."
The concluding days of the fast should be additionally
1 An adaptation of the Key of Solomon, Book II. c. 4-
2 The following is added inthe Clavicle, loc. c.i't- 0 Lord God, Father Eternal ! 0 Thou
Who art seated upon Cherubim and Seraphim, Who beholdest the earth and the sea! Unto
Thee do I lift up my hands, and beseech Thine aid alone-Thou Who art the fulfilment of
good works, Who givest rest unto those who toil, Who humblest the proud, Who art Author
of all life and Destroyer of death. Our rest art Thou, Protector of those who call upon Thee;
-do Thou guard and defend me in this undertaking, 0 Thou who livest and reignest for evetr
and ever. Amen.
146The Preparation of the Operator
strict, the meals being limited to bread and water, with
abstinence from all sin and repetition of the above prayer.
14- Concerning the ExternalPreparation of the' Operator,
andfirstly Concerning Ablution,
The rite of lustration, being the sacramental mark ofinward
cleanliness, is prescribed in all magical ceremonies, and is equally
important in_ Goetic art. The ordinary daily ablution itself be-
comes symbolical. When the operator rises in the morning,
during the preparatory triduum prescribed by the Grimorium
Verum, his hands and face must ' be sponged with a clean
white cloth, using water which has been previously exorcised
according to the indications of the Ritual' and reciting the
PREPARATORY PRAYER
Lord God:ADONAY, Who hast formedman out of nothing to
Thin'e own image and likeness, and me also, unworthy sinner
as I am, deign, Ipray Thee, to bless i-i and sanctify this water,
that it may be healthful to my body and soul, that all delusion
may depart from me. 0 Lord God, Almighty and Inefable,
Who didst lead forth Thy people from the land of Egypt, and
didst, cause them to pass dry-shod over the Red Sea ! Grant
that I may be cleansed by this water from all my sins and may
appear innocent before Thee. Amen.
The Book of Trice Black Magic observes that the bath is
most necessary for Magical Art ,2 and that it must be taken on
1 From these indications it follows literally that such water would hold quicklime in solu-
tion. The passage stands thus: "Warning: The said water must be that whichwas previously
exorcised, wherein thy lime was put'-namely, for the dressing of the lambskin. But water
consecrated at the same time is most probably intended.
' The statement is adapted from the Key of Solomon,Book II, c. 5, but the analogy ends
with the prescription of warm water; the prayers differand the whole ceremony is simplified
in theGortic ritual.
I47The Book of Ceremonial Magic
the final day of the fast, when.: the exorcisor has been, cleansed
from all sins, when he has written with, the pen of the Art, upon
virgin paper or parchment, all the conjurations and exorcisms
required in the practice, and has performed all the other pre-
paratory ceremonies. From the crown of his head to the soles
of his feet he must purify himself with warm exorcised water,
saying as he does so : 0 Lord Adonay, Who past formed me
in Thine image and in Thy likeness, deign to bless and sanctify
this water, so that it may become unto me the salvation off my soul
and body, andthat no wickedness may ever find place within me.
The Psalms Dominus illuminatio mea and Dixit insipiins
in corde suo should be added." Then he should dry himself.
The prayer,following must be repeated-five times . during
the day and four times during the night-for the space of
three days : ASTROSCHIO, ASATH, k sacra BEDRIMUBAL, FELUT,
ANABOTOS, SERABILEM, SERGEN, GEMEN, DOMOS. 0 Lord God,
Who art seated above the heavens, Who beholdest the depths,
grant me, I pray Thee, that those things which I conceive in
my mind maylalso be executed by me, through Thee, 0 Great
God, Who lzvest and reignest for ever and ever ! Amen .
§ 5. Concerning the External Preparation of the Operator,
and secondly Concerning the Vestments
The use of special garments in the ceremonies of Magic
follows reasonably enough from the religious character ascribed
to these operations. Peter de Abano recommends a priest's,
garment if possible, by which an alb may be understood!
" These Psalms are numbered "3 and 26 in the Vulgate. They were possibly selected on
account of the symbolism attaching to these numbers. Thirteen refers to death and resurrection
into new life; it thus connects with the regeneration typified by the bath. Twenty-six is the
number of Jehovah. In the Authorised Version the same Psalms appear as 14 and 27.
$ A long garment of white linen, close before and behind, covering the whole body even to
the feet, and cinctured by a girdle--such is the ordinance of pseudo-Agrippa.
148The Preparation of the Operator
The Book of Black Magic, . following the Key of Solomon,
and representing the Jewish rite, prescribes an outer vest-
ment like that of the Levites, with the following characters
embroidered in red silk upon the breast :-
All garments, even to the shirt, must be of linen cloth,' and
-when assuming them these words should be recited : ANTON,
AMATOR, a' MITES, THEODONIEL, PONCOR, PAGOR, ANITOR ;s by
the virtue ofthese most holy Angelic Names do I clothe myself,
0 Lord, in my, Sabbath garments, that so I may fu664 even
unto their term, all things which I. desire to eject through Thee,
Most Holy ADONAY, Whose kingdom and rule endxre for ever
and ever. Amen.
The shoes and hat should be of white leather, bearing the
same characters" written in cinnabar diluted with gum-water,
the pen of the Art being used. The following names must be
written about the hat :4 JEHOVA, behind ; ADONAY, on the right
hand ELOY, on the left ; and GiBOR,s at the front.
1 According to the KeyofSolomon the thread of which they are made should be spun by a
young maiden.
s The Key ofSolomon renders these names differently, namely : Amor, Amator, Amides,
Ideodaniach, Pamor, Plaior, Anitor; for Sabbath garments it substitutes Vestments of Power.
' Special characters are given for the garment and the shoes by the Clavicle. They bear
no analogy to anything in the Grimoire.
' For the hat or bonnet a crown is prescribed in the Clavicle, and it should be made. of
virgin paper.
s In place of these words theKey of Solomon-substitutesEland.Elokim.
149CHAPTER II
Cbe 3{nitial laitez anti Ceremonito
§ I. Concerning the Virtues of the Planets
H E , Key of Solomon the King is the only ordinary
T
Magical Ritual which regulates the operations of
Magical Art in accordance with a formal attribution
of certain hours in the day and night to the rule and influence
of certain planets, while the Book of True Black Magic is
the only Goetic Grimoire which follows the Clavicle closely in
this as in other respects.' The directions given are, however, .
exceedingly confused. The common attribution of the seven
days to the seven planets obtains in both cases, and is set .
out in the Grimoire as follows : $-
Solday = Saturn = k Saturday.
Zedex = Jupiter . = 71 Thursday.
Madime Mars = d Tuesday.
Zemen = Sol = O a Sunday.
Hogos = Venus = p ]Friday.
Cocao = Mercury = # Wednesday.
Zeveac = Moon Monday.
But as there is inequality in the length of the days,, says
the Grimoire-that is to say, the comparative duration of day
1.It should be observed, however, that favourable days and hours are occasionally mentioned,
but there is no attempt at a systematic valuation of the times and seasons suitable to different
operations.
The apparently barbarous names given in the table are corruptions of Hebrew words, and
the English editor ofThe Keyof Solomon has restored their proper orthography, as follows :-
Shabbathai, Tzedek, Madim, Shemesh, Nogah, Cochab, Lebanah .
150The Initial Rites and Ceremonies
and night varies in accordance with the times of sunrise and
sunset-so also the hours of 'the planets are unequal. When
the day is, say, fifteen hours in length, to ascertain how many
minutes compose an hour of the planet, multiply the fifteen
hours by five the result is seventy-five, and as many minutes
will form the hour of the planet of that day. The corre-
sponding hours of the night are nine ; these multiplied by_ five
produce forty-five, and as many minutes will form the hour of
the planet of the night. The same method' may be followed
through all seasons of the year.
But in any given day of twenty-four hoi rs the number
of minutes is 1440, as against 1530 in the above computation,
and the method is therefore absurd.' The attribution accepted
by all writers on Natural Magic, and corresponding with the
angelical succession in Peter de Abano, will be found in the
following:-
TABLE OF PLANETARY HOURS COMPUTED FROM MIDNIGHT
TO MIDNIGHT
HOURS OF THE DAY
Sunday. Monday. Tuesday. Wednesday. Thursday, Friday. Saturday.
I. Sun . . . Moon . . Mars. . . Merc. . . Jup. . . . Venus . . Sat.
2. Venus . Sat. . Sun . . Moon . . Mars,. . . Merc. . . Jup.
3- Merc. . Jup. . Venus . Sat. , . . Sun Moon . Mars
4- Moon . Mars. Merc. . . Jup. . Venus . . Sat. . . . Sun
5. Sat. . . . Sun . Moon . . Mars. . . Merc. . . Jup. . . . Venus
6. jup. . . . Venus Sat. . Sun . . .Moon Mars. . . Merc.
7- Mars. . . Merc. Jup. . . . Venus . . Sat. . . . Sun Moon
8. Sun . . . Moon Mars. Merc. . . Jup. . Venus . . Sat.
9. Venus . . Sat. . Sun . . . Moon . . Mars. , . Merc. Jup.
10. Merc. . . Jup. . Venus Sat. . . . Sun . Moon . . Mars
11. Moon . . Mars Merc. . . Jup. . . . Venus . . Sat. . . . Sun
12. Sat. . . .Sun Moon . Mars. . . Merc. . . Jup. . . . Venus
1 It offers no analogy with the system set forth in the Clavicle, nor can it be definitely traced
to any magical authority w~hin my knowledge.
'5'The Book of Ceremonial Magic
HOURS OF THE NIGHT
i. Jup. . . Venus Sat. . Sun . . . Moon Mars. . Merc.
2. Mars. . Merc. Jup. . . . Venus . . Sat. . . . Sun . . . Moon
3. Sun . . Moon . . Mars . . . Merc. . . Jup Venus . . Sat.
4. Venus . Sat. . Sun . . . Moon Mars. . . Merc. . . Jup.
5. Merc. . Jup. . Venus . . Sat. . . . Sun . . Moon . . Mars
6. Moon . Mars . . . Merc. Jup. . Venus . . Sat. . . . Sun
7. Sat. . . Sun . . . Moon . . Mars. . . Merc. . Jup. . Venus
8. Jup. . . Venus . . Sat. . . . Sun . . . Moon . . Mars. . . Merc.
9. Mars. . Merc. . . Jup. . . . Venus . . Sat. . . . Sun . . . Moon
io. Sun . . Moon . . Mars. . . Merc. . . Jup. . . . Venu\' . Sat.
Ii. Venus . Sat. . . . Sun . Moon . . Mars. . . Merc. . . Jup.
12. Merc. . Jup. . . . Venus . . Sat. . . . Sun . . . Moon . . Mars
It will be seen from this table that there is a recurring rule
of the planets in unbroken succession through the whole week,
after which the sequence recommences in the same order, each
planet ruling the first and the eighth of the day hours and the
third and the tenth of the night hours of the day referred to
that planet. These constitute the planetary hours.
The Book of Black Magic, still following and confusing the
statements of the Clavicle,' lays down that the hours of Saturn,
Mars and Venus are good for communion with spirits ; the
hour of Saturn serves for invoking souls in hell, and to have
news of those who have died naturally. The souls of those
who have been slain should be invoked in the hour and also on
the day of Mars. It adds that experiments made faithfully and
with great diligence, observing all that is laid down, will be
invariably verified, but to fail over the smallest part will void
perfection in any.
The hours of Saturn and of Mars are also good for prepara-
tion, on those days when they are in conjunction with the Moon,
or indeed with one another.' In a contrary or quadrate aspect
1 In the version that follows, which condenses and summarises the original, there is an
attempt to reduce them to order, and to make them consistent, if not intelligible.
The Key of Solomon says that the hours of Saturn and of Mars, and also the days in
which the Moon is in conjunction with these planets, are admirable for experiments of hatred,
enmity and discord. It will be seen in what sense this farrago of villainous nonsense can be
regarded as on God's side, as its impossible English editor would doubtless wish us to believe.
152The Initial Rites and Ceremonies
they are good for experiences of hatred, lawsuits, enmities, dis-
cords and so forth. The hours of the Sun, Jupiter-and Venus,
especially their planetary hour,, are favourable both to ordinary
and extraordinary experiments not included in those already
mentioned. Those of the Moon are especially, suited to the
conjuration of spirits, works of necromancy, and the finding of
stolen goods ; but the luminary must be collocated and in a
terrestrial sign-that is to say, (in conjunction) with Mercury
for love, favours and invisibility ; for works of hatred and dis-
cord in a sign belonging to the fiery triplicity-Aries, Leo,
Sagittarius ; for extraordinary experiences in an aquatic sign-
Cancer, Scorpio, or Pisces. Should, however, the observation
of these rules seem over-difficult, " do this only "-see that the
Moon waxing is in an equal number of degrees with the Sun ;
it is then very good for the performance of the above experi-
ments. When the full Moon is in opposition to the Sun, it is
excellent for warlike, riotous and discordant experiments ; in its
last quarter it favours works which deal directly with operations
of destruction and ruin. The best time for the experiences of
death and invisibility is when the Moon is almost deprived
of light.
When the Moon is in conjunction with the Sun nothing
must be undertaken, because it is an unfortunate time and all
things fail therein ; but when in its crescent period, acuated
with light, any experiences may be prepared and any writings
and operations accomplished, especially for conversing with
spirits. It must, however, be the day of Mercury and in the
hour of that planet, the Moon being in an earthly or aerial sign,
as above said, and in a pair number with the Sun .'
1 The attribution in the original is throughout this portion not only erroneous, but seems to
involve impossible positions. It has been corrected partially, in accordance with the Clavicle.
1 53The Book of Ceremonial Magic
. A General Instruction concerning the Instruments
required for the Art
Most Goetic rituals specify with considerable minuteness the
instruments which are required for the operations, and in these
respects, but with variations peculiar to themselves, and dis-
tinguishing them also from one another, they follow the autho-
rity of the Key of Solomon. Peter de Abano tells us nothing
I
concerning them, nor yet pseudo-Agrippa, with the one ex-
ception of the sword, which, following a physical analogy,
seems to be universal in practical magic. In the Grimoires,
however, though sometimes the first weapon to be mentioned,
its position is comparatively insignificant, as the knife is a
readier instrument. Speaking generally, there is little in the
literature to justify the complex modern elaborations of Eliphas
Levi and of Christian.
Among the necessary properties mentioned by the Book
of True Black Magic are the sword, the staff, the rod, the
lancet, the arctrave or hook, the bolline or sickle, the needle,
the poniard, a white-handled -knife and another knife, with a
black; handle, used to describe the circle. The most important
to make is that called the bolline ; it must be forged on the day
and in .the hour of Jupiter, selecting a small piece of unused
steel. Set it thrice in the fire and extinguish it in the blood of
a mole mixed with the juice of the pimpernel.' Let this be done
when the Moon is in her full light and course. On the same
2
day and in the hour of Jupiter, fit a horn handle to the steel,
1 Or, according to the Key of Solomon, in the day and hour of Mercury, and substituting
the blood of the magpie and the juice of the herb Mercury, the French Foirole, from which a
so-called Elixir of Long Life was formerly made.
e The Key of Solomon substitutes white boxwood; it omits the planetary influence, leaving
it to be inferred that it should be done in the hour that the steel is forged, which must also be
sunrise.
154The Initial Rites and, Ceremonies
shaping it with a new sword forged thrice as above in the fire.
When made and perfected, recite over it this
PRA YER OR CONJURA TION
I conjure thee, 0 form of this instrument, by the authority
of God the Father Almighty,, by the virtue of Heaven and the
stars, by the virtue of the Angels, by that of the elements, by
that of stones and herbs, and in like manner by the virtue of
snowstorms, thunder and winds, that thou receive all power unto
the performance of those things in the perfection of which we are
concerned, the whole without trickery, falsehood or deception, by
the command of God, Creator of the ages and Emperor of the
Angels.. Amen.
The ensuing salutations must then be pronounced over the
instrument : Domine, Deus.-mews, in to speravi; Confctcbor, tibi,
Domine, in toto corde meo : Quemadmodum desiderat cervus ad
Jontes ayuarum,' &c., adding the following words : DAMAHII,
LUMECH, GADAL, PANCIA, VELOAS, MEOROD, LAMIDOCH, BAL-
DAC#1, ANERETHON, MITATRON, most holy angels, beye wardens'
of this instrument, because I shall make use of it for siveral
necessary works.
Place it in. a new wrappers of red silk, making suffumiga-
tion with odoriferous perfumes, as will be hereinafter set forth.
Take care not to perfect the instrument otherwise than on the
day of Venus, and in the hour thereof, when also the needle
and other like instruments may be prepared.
Subsequently, on the day of Venus, the Moon being in the
sign of Capricorn, or otherwise of the Virgin,' if the same be
1 Psalms vii., cx., and xli., according to the computation of the vulgate.
9 According to theKey of Solomon, it should be on the day and in the hour of Mercury,
when Mars is in Aries or Scorpio.
I55The Book of Ceremonial Magic
possible,,thou shalt make the first knife' and-shalt steep it in the
blood of the mole' and the juice of the pimpernel. Let the
Moon be in an acute time of course and light, the operation
beginning in the first hour of Venus and ending at the ninth
hour of the same day. Fit the knife with a handle of white
wood cut at a single stroke with a new sword or knife, and on
this handle engrave the following characters :--
NTX DV~3
I E
Fumigate as before, and with this knife do all things needful
to the Art, the circle excepted . But if such a knife be too diffi-
cult to manufacture, procure one of the same form ready made ;
steep it in the blood and juice as above fit thereto the same
handle bearing the same characters, Wand upon the blade, pro-
ceeding from point to handle, write with a male goose-quill
the words : AHARARAT, To. Perfume as before, sprinkle with
exorcised water, and place in the silken wrapper already
mentioned.'
That with the black handle, destined to describe the circle
and intimidate the spirits, and for performing other similar things,
must be made in every respect like the first, except as regards
the day and hour, which should be those of Saturn. The steel
should be extinguished in the blood of a cat 8 and the juice of
hemlock, while the handle should be of sheep's horn . The
1 Of a gosling, says the Clavicle.
2 It should be understood that wherever the use of animal blood is prescribed I have made
an alteration at some hypothetically essential point, and now give notice, generally and
especially, to this effect. The course taken does not mean that I believe in the efficacy of these
foolish processes, but that knavish persons may be dissuaded from trying them . It is out of
respect to the animals and not consideration to them.
s Of a black cat, says the Clavicle, and the weapon when finished should'be wrapped in a
cloth of black silk, which, however, contradicts Book ii. c. 20, of the same work.
156/o.
I is .
13.
uIIBlIpptp~tNUIT/
h
PLATE VII
INSTRUMENTS OF BLACK MAGICThe Initial Rites and Ceremonies
poniard or stiletto and the lancet should be made after the same
manner on the day and in the hour of Mercury, and the steel
extinguished in the blood of a mole and the juice of the herb
Mercury. They should be fitted with horn handles,' shaped
with a new sword in the day and hour of Mercury, and should
bear these characters upon the said handles .-
etljj)~
rr)1O_),_'k
Fumigate as before, and use in their proper place as required .
The Grimorium Verum, which' makes for simplicity, reduces
the steel instruments to three-namely, knife, graver and lancet.
The twoa first should be made on the day and in the hour of
Jupiter, with the waxing Moon in the ascendant, which is at
issue with the previous authority. When finished, the follow-
ing Prayer or Conjuration must, in each case, be recited over
them. The knife should' be large enough to sever the neck of
a kid at one blow ; it should be fitted with a haft of wood,
made on the same day and in the same hour, and graven with
magical characters. The instrument should then be sprinkled,
fumigated and preserved for use as required.
CONJURATION
I conjure thee, form of the instrument, , N., by God the
Father Almighty; by the virtue of Heaven and by all the stars
which rule; by the virtue of the four elements by that of all
stones, all plants and all animals whatsoever ; by the virtue of
hailstorms and winds to receive such virtue herein that we may,
1 White boxwood is prescribed by the KeyofSolomon.
159The Book of Ceremonial Magic
obtain by thee the perfect issue of all our desires, -which also
we seek to perform without evil, without deception, by God, -the
Creator ofthe Sun: and the Angels. Amen.
Recite the Seven [Penitential] Psalms, and add these words
DALMALEY, LAMECK, CADAT, PANCIA, VELOUS, MERROE, - LAMI-
DECK, CALDULECH, ANERETON, MITRATON, most pure Angels, beye
guardians ofthese instruments, which are needfulfor many things.
The lancet, which is mentioned but not described in the
Book of True Black Magic, should, according to the Gri-
morium Verum, be made in the day and hour of Mercury, the
Moon waxing, and should be conjured after the same manner
as the knife and graver. If assistants accompany the operator,
each must be provided with his knife, and the like rule obtains
concerning the Sword of the Art, which should be polished on
the day of Mercury, from the first to the third hour of the
night.' That designed for the Master or chief operator should
bear the words ELOHIM JITOR,' proceeding from point to hilt.
For that of the first disciple, write the' name CARDIEL upon the
handle, and upon the blade REGION, proceeding from point to
hilt. It should appear on both sides transversely, but add on
e.
the one PANORAIM 4, and on the other HEOMESiM On the
sword of the second disciple write URIEL, SARAION, GAMERIN ~,
DEBALIIN, in the manner before described. On that of the .
e,
third disciple write DANIEL, IMETON, LAMEDIIN ERADIN, and
fit thesame with a handle of white bone.'
1 The first or the fifteenth hour is the reading of the Key, but there is more reason in the
longer period, having regard to the nature of the operation.
1 i.e., Elohim Gibor. The Key ofSolomon prescribes other Divine Names for the Sword
of the Master.
These instructions are terribly confused . Compare the English version of the Key of
Solomon,wherein the passage is thus amended :- "The first sword should have on the pommel
the name Cardiel or Gabriel; on the Lamen of the Guard, Region; on they Blade, Panoraim
Heamesin. The second should have on the pommel the name Auriel; on the Lamen of the
I6oThe_ Initial Rites and Ceremonies
The following Conjuration must be recited secretly over the
swords :-Z conjure you, 0 sword, by the three Holy Names,
ALREOT, ABRACADABRA, JEOVA l, Be thou myfortress and defence
against all enemies, visible and invisible, in every magical work.
By the Holy. Name SADAY, which is great in power, and by
these other names, CADOS, CADOS, CADOS, ADONAY, ELOY, ZENA,
OTH, OCHIMANUEL, the First and the Last, Wisdom, Way,
Life, Virtue, Chief, Mouth, Speech, Splendour, Light, Sun,
Fountain, Glory, Mountain=, Vine, Gate, Stone, Staff, Priest,
Immortal, MESSIAH, Sword, do thou rule in all my affairs and
prevailin those things z0hich oppose me. Amen.
§ 3. Concerning the Rod and Staff of the Art
The great mystery of practical magic is supposed to be
centred in the Magic Rod, and L`liphas Levi, who claims to
have reconstructed the primitive ceremonial, but seems rather
to have over-edited his materials, supplies a highly sensational
account of its powers and an elaborate method of its prepara-
tion. For him it is the sign of the transmission of the magical
priesthood, which has never ceased since the darksome origin
of pseudo-transcendent science. The operator is overwhelmed
with precautions concerning the secrecy which must be main-
tained in regard to it and might well be dejected by the diffi-
culties of its consecration. I n view of such imputed importance,
it is curious that De Abano and pseudo-Agrippa omit all mention
of this tremendous instrument, while the Key of Solomon dis-
misses it in a few lines of easy instruction. It would appear,
however, that a staff and rod are both necessary, especially in
Goetic operations, though their distinctive provinces are in no
Guard, Sarion; on the Blade, Gamorin Debalin. The third sword should have on the pommel
the nameDamielor Raphael; on the Lamen of the Guard, Yemeton; on the Blade, Lamedin
Eradim."
161 LThe Book of Ceremonial Magic
case described. According to the Book of True Black Magic,
the staff should be of cane and the wand or rod of hazel, both
virgin-that is, having no branches or offshoots. They must
be cut and trimmed on the day and in the hour of the Sun,
while the following characters must be inscribed upon the staff,
but on the day and in the hour of Mercury : a-
;J" -og)~Jcjj Ll
JZ) Z
If engraved with the "sacred instrument," it will be so much
the better.3 In either case, let the following words be recited,
when the writing is finished : -O ADONAY, most Holy and
most Powerful, vouchsafe to consecrate and bless this Staff
and this Rod, so that they may ftossess the required virtue,
0 most Holy ADONAY, to whom be honour and glory for ever
and ever. Amen.
Lastly, the two instruments should be asperged, fumigated
and put away in the silken cloth.
The Grimorium he rum directs the operator to make two
wands of wood which has never borne fruit . The first should
be cut at a single stroke from an elder-tree on the day and in
the hour of Mercury. The second should be of hazel, free
from bud, and cut in the hour of the Sun .* The magical char-
acters which must be engraved upon each have been omitted
by the printer, but they are supplied-or their substitutes-in
1 The definition of virgin wood differs in the Key of Solomon, which says
: In all cases
the wood should be virgin-that is, of one year's growth only.
2 According to the Key of Solomon, both staff and rod should be cut on the day and in
the hour of Mercury at sunrise, which limits the operation to the few days of the middle winter,
when the sun rises about eight o'clock.
a Presumably, with the burin or graver.
4 This variation appears to reconcile the Book of True Black Magic with the Key of
Solomon, aid is probably the true reading.
162The Initial Rites and Ceremonies
the modern Italian versions. They are, for the first, the seal
or character of Frimost and that of Klopoth for the second (see
Chap., I I I., Sec. 2). The prayer of consecration offers no varia-
tion of importance from that of True Black Magic, and does
not need to be' reproduced. Aspersion and fumigation are
prescribed, as in the previous case.
The Grand Grimoire devotes an entire chapter to the true
composition of the Mysterious Wand, otherwise the Destroying
or Blasting Rod. It mentions no other instrument, and ascribes
to it all power in diabolical evocations. It would seem to have
supplied Eliphas Levi with the first hint of his still more potent
Verendum, to which, however, an allegorial significance may
perhaps be attributed. On the eve of the great enterprise, says
this Ritual, you must go in search of a wand or rod of wild
hazel which has never borne fruit ; its length should be nineteen
and a half inches. When you have met with a wand of the
required form, touch it not otherwise than with your eyes ; let
it stay till the next morning, which is the day of operation ;
then must you cut it absolutely at the moment when the sun
rises ; strip it of its leaves and lesser branches, if any there be,
using the knife of sacrifice stained with the blood of the victim.'
Begin cutting it when the sun is first rising over this hemi-
sphere, and pronounce the following words ::I beseech Thee,
O Grand ADONAY, ELOIM, ARIEL and JEHOVAM, to be j5roj5itious
unto me, and to endow this Wand which I am cutting with
the dower and virtue of the rods of Jacob, of Moses and of
the mighty Joshua / I also beseech Thee, 0 Grand ADONAY,
ELOIM, ARIEL and JEHOVAM, to infuse into this Rod the whole
strength of, Samson, the righteous wrath of EMANUEL and the
thunders of mighty Zariatnatmik, who will avenge the crimes
ofmen at the Day ofJudgment! Amen.
1 See Chapter VI., Sec. i.
163The Book of Ceremonial Magic
Having pronounced these "sublime and terrific words," and
still keeping your eyes turned towards the region of the rising
sun, you may finish cutting your rod, and may then carry it
to your abode. You must next go in search of a piece of
ordinary wood, fashion the two ends like those of the genuine
rod and, take it to an ironsmith, who shall weld the steel blade
of the sacrificial knife into two pointed caps and shall affix
them to the said ends. This done, you may again return
home, and there, with your own hands, affix the steel caps
to the joints of the genuine rod . Subsequently, you must
obtain a piece of loadstone and magnetise the steel ends,
pronouncing the following words :-By the grand ADONAY,
ELOIM, ARIEL and JEHOVAM, I bid thee join with and attract
dll substances which I desire, by the power of the sublime
ADONAY, ELOIM, ARIEL and JEHOVAM. I command thee, by
the opposition of fire and water, to separate all substances,
as they were separated on the day of the world's creation.
Amen.
Finally, you must rejoice in the honour and glory of the
sublime Adonay, being convinced that you are in possession of
a most priceless Treasure of the Light.'
4. Concerning .the Pen and Ink of the Art
Preliminary magical ceremonial seems to have as its chief
object the personal consecration of every article, great or small,
indispensable or occasional, which is connected with the several
processes. The pen and ink with which characters and, names
1 Another method of preparing a Magic Rod ordains that it shall be a branch of the hazel-
tree put forth during the year of operation. It must becut on the first Wednesday after the
new moon, between I t P.m. and midnight. The; knife must be new and the branch severed
by a downward stroke. The rod must then be blessed ; at the stouter end must be written
the word AGLA4+, in the centre ON +, and towards the pointTETRAGRAMMA'i'ON.'. Lastly,
say overit : Conjuro tocito mihi obedire-I conjure thee to obey me forthwith.
164The Initial Rites and Ceremonies
are written must both be specially prepared. Take a new
quill, says the Grimorium Verum ; asperge and fumigate it
after the manner of the other instruments ; when you hold it
in your hand to shape it, say the following words :-ABABALOY,
SAMOY, ESCAVOR, ADONAY : I have expelled all illusion from
this pen, that it may retain efficaciously within it the virtue
necessary for all things which are used in this Art, as well for
operations as for characters and conjurations. Amen.
In like manner, a horn or ink-well must be bought on the
day and in the hour of Mercury, and in the same hour the
following names of God must be written about it :-Jan, HE,
VAU, HE, METATRON, JOD,1 CADOS,a ELOYM,8 SABAOTH. It
must then be filled with fresh ink which has been exorcised as
follows :--
EXORCISM OF THE INK
I exorcise thee, creature of Ink, by ANSTON, CERRETON,
STIMULATOR,' ADONAY, and by the name of Him Whose one
Word created all and can achieve all, that so thou shall assist
me in my work, that my work may be accomplished by my will,
andfu flled with the permission of God, Who ruleth in all things
and through all things, everywhere and for ever. Amen.
BENEDICTION OF THE INK
Lord God Almighty, Who rulest all and reignest through
all eternity, Who dost fu fl great wonders in Thy creatures,
grant unto us the grace of Thy Holy Spirit by means of this
ink. Bless itij4, sanctify it j and confer upon it a peculiar
1 The Key ofSolomon substitutes the Divine Name,Jah, thrice repeated.
2 i.e., Kadosh. s i.e., Elohim.
4 The Key ofSolomon readsAnaireton, Simulator.
165The Book of Ceremonial Magic
virtue, so that whatsoever is said, whatsoever we desire to do
and to write herewith, may succeed through Thee, Most Holy
Prince ADONAY. Amen.1
Then asperge, fumigate and exorcise.
The Book of True Black Magic, on the other hand, directs
the operator to pluck the third feather from the right wing of
a male gooses and to say when extracting it : ABRACHAY,
ARATON, SAMATOY, SCAVER, ADONAY ! Expel all evil from this
feather, so that it may possess fullpower to write whatsoever
I will.
Then shape it with the Knife of the Art, namely, that having
a white handle ; incense also and asperge it. Lastly, take a
new earthen cornicle or inkhorn, made on the day and in the
hour of Venus, and write about it these names with the exor-
cised lancet of the Art : JOD, HE, VAU, HE, MITATRON, JAE,'
JAE, JAE, CADOS, ELOYN, ZEVAO.4 Then dip the pen therein,
pronouncing the following words :-I exorcise thee, creature of
the feather kind, by ETERETON,' by STIMULATON s and by the
name ADONAY. Do thou aid me in all my works.
The instruction continues :-As it is sometimes necessary
to write with coloured inks, have several horns containing
white inks, in which infuse thy colours for the pentacles and
characters. The colours must be diluted with the blessed water
which we term exorcised, and with gum arabic. Lastly, per-
fume them. Let this be done with all devotion, humility and
1 This prayer, like many others in the Grimoires which derive from the Clavicle, is the
introduction of a Christian compiler. The Key of Solomon has no Trinitarian references and
no crosses.
8 This process is identical with that of the Clavicle, the names only being mutilated.
8 i.e.,Jah.
' i.e., Elohim Teabaoth.
8 As before,'Anaireton and Simulator.
166I
The Initial Rites and Ceremonies
faith, wanting which nothing can be accomplished, says the
Grimoire..
The same work gives particulars concerning the extraction
of the sword-feather from the right wing of a swallow, pre-
ceding the action with the words Yin He. It should then be
made into a pen by means of the Knife of the Art, and the
name Anereton must be written on it with the goose-quill, after
which the Psalms Ecce quam bonum et quam jucundum and
Laudate Dominum omnes geniesI are to be recited over it,
followed by aspersion and fumigation. ,
It is not to be supposed that any ordinary ink could be
suitable for so serious a business as that of engrossing pacts.
Even the consecrations previously given are inadequate in such
a case. It is understood that the signature is written with the
blood of the operator, but the deed itself requires a special
preparation, as follows :-Place river-water in a new, varnished
earthenware, pot, together with the powder hereinafter de-
scribed. Then take sprigs of fern gathered" on the Eve of St.
John and vine twigs cut in the full moon of March . Kindle
this wood by means of virgin paper, and when the water boils
the ink will be made. It must be changed each time that there
is occasion to write, that is to say, whensoever the appellation
of a spirit is undertaken.
Powder for Pact-Ink
B Gall-nuts . . . Iooz.
Roman Vitriol or Green Copperas . • 3 Oz-
Rock Alum or Gum Arabic . 3 oz.
•
Make an impalpable powder, and when you would compose
the ink, use as above described.
The authorities for this process are not the Grimoires proper
1 Psalms cxxxii. and cxvi. of the Vulgate.
167The Book of Ceremonial Magic
but the collections of Magical Secrets which are sometimes
appended to them but sometimes form independent works.
§' 5. Concerning Virgin Wax or Virgin Earth
I
The candles used in evocation or in other magical expe-
riences, and the images required for bewitchment, must be
composed of virgin wax or virgin earth-that is to say, the
substances in question must not have been applied previously to
another purpose.' Before operating the following words must
be recited over the material :-ENTABOR, NATABOR, Si tacibor,
ADONAY, AN, LAYAMON, TINARMES, EOS PHILODES.3 Angels of
God, be ye present ! I invoke you in my work, that I may
obtain, virtue by your mediation and may be perfected very
surely. Then recite the Psalms Domine, non est exaltatum cor
meum and Domine, quis habitabit,¢ adding these words : I
exorcise thee, creature of wax [or earth], and, by the Creator
and God Almighty, Who created all things from nothing by His
Most Holy Name, and by His angels, I ordain thee to receive
virtue and benediction in His Name, that so thou mayst be
sanctified and blessed, thus obtaining that virtue which we
desire, by the Most Holy Name ADONAY, which is the life
of all creatures, Amen. Asperge the substance with the holy
water of the Art, after which preserve it, to make use thereof
when needed. So doing, says True Black Magic, thou shalt
obtain a sure result in all which thou undertakest .s
I This processis adapted from the Key of Solomon, Book ii. c. 8.
• The virginity of the wax and the earth is more perfectly ensured by the directions of the
Key of Solomon, in accordance with which the operator must dig up the earth with his own
hands and reduce it to a paste, using no instrument in case of defilement . The wax must be
taken from bees who have made it for the first time.
3 These names differ from those in the Key of Solomon, which, however, are, for the most
part, equally unintelligible.
4 Ps. cxxx. and Ps. xiv. in the Vulgate.
• The Key ofSolomon directs that the earth should be freshly dug up on each occasion
that it is required.
z68The Initial Rites and Ceremonies
§ 6. Concerning the Silken Cloth'
When all the instruments belonging to the Art have been
properly consecrated and exorcised, they must be gathered into
a costly cloth of silk, as Solomon ordains-says the testament-
whereby they may be preserved clean and pure and may thus
be more efficacious. So it be not black or brown, the colour is
indifferent, but the following characters must be written upon
it in pigeon's blood with the male goose-quill proper to the Art .
X_1%J1
JTf
~"3
Add these names : ADONAY, AMMASTIUS, ANARETON, COSBOS,
ELOYM. Then fumigate and asperge, reciting subsequently the
Psalms Domine, Dominus nosier, Deus Judicium tuum Regi da
and Ecce nunc dimittis.Q Place, lastly, all the magical instru-
ments in this silken cloth. " So shalt thou use them at will and
shalt learn their effect," says the Magus, Iroe-Grego. But the
pledge has a savour of the salt which is called prudence .
§ 7. Concerning the Victim of the Art
It is usually supposed_ that the offering of a bloody sacrifice
is an essential condition of success in Black Magic and that the
embrutement of the operator is the chief purpose of the ordi-
nation. It is true that such an offering is in most cases en-
joined, but its object is simple and commonplace rather than
diabolical or recondite, and the practice itself is based on the
so-called White Magic of the Key of Solomon. It offers
1 This process is adapted from theKey of Solomon,Book ii. c. 20. There, however, the use
of blood is omitted.
2 Psalm viii. and Psalm lxxi. inthe Vulgate, together with the Canticle of Simeon.
169The Book of Ceremonial Magic
another instance that if this text be the head and fount of the
Art, it is also the root of its diabolism. The Art-I should
explain-has , its victim, not because blood is required in the
one case more than the other, but because it was customary for
pacts and pentacles to be written on parchment or vellum, and,
in view of that doctrine of personal consecration already ex-
plained, the Black Magician had, as far as possible, to dispense
with outside labour, to be his own whitesmith, his own pen-
maker, and hence also his own tanner. Alterius non sit qui sues
essepotest was the maxim of Paracelsus, and it was carried further
in Goetia than mere intellectual independence. Make yourself
what you want ; do not trust it to others ; it will not only pos-
sess more of your personal virtue, but you will be sure of the
article-such might be the commentary of the Grimoires upon
the aphorism of the sage of Hohenheim, and there is the more
reason in the counsel because even the accessible substances
required by the operator had usually some awkward conditions
attached to them, which might remain unfulfilled unless he
himself was actively present in their preparation. A particular
case in point is the parchment used in the Art. The magician
was required to slay a lamb or kid with his own hands, not
because there was any symbolical importance attached to the
act of destruction-the Grimoires make no such ascription-not
because the blood was used-for its use is seldom prescribed-
but to insure that the animal was one from which virgin parch-
ment or virgin vellum could be prepared .
That is called virgin, says the Book of True Black Magic,
which is made from animals that have never engendered, males
above all,'-from which definition it is obvious that recourse
1 TheKeyofSolomon, Book ii. c. 57, distinguishes between virgin parchment and unborn
parchment; the latter is obtained from an animal which has been taken before its time from
the womb of its mother.
I70The Initial Rites and Ceremonies
to the professional tanner might jeopardise the entire injunc-
tion. But seeing that every operation undertaken in the Art
assumed a religious aspect, the slaughter of the animal became
a sacrifice' and had its accompanying ceremonies, prayers and
invocations, each ritual possessing its own variants.
The preparation of the virginparchment is given as follows
in the Grimorium Verum :2-
CONCERNING THE VICTIM OF THE ARi a
Take your kid ; place it on a block with the throat turned
upward, so that it may be easier for you to cut it ; be ready
with your knife, and cut the throat at a single stroke, pro-
nouncing the name of the Spirit whom you wish to invoke .
For example, say : I slay thee, N., in the name and to the
honour of N. . . . Have a care that two blows be not needed,
but let it die at the first ; then skin it with the knife, and while
skinning it make the following
IN VOCA TION
ADIRAM, DALMAY, LAUDAY, TETRAGRAMMATON, ANERETON,4
and all ye holy angels of God, be ye here and deign to impart
1 It is fair to state that there is a form of evocation given in the Vocabulaire Infernalin which
a sacrificeperse is prescribed. The source from which it is derived is not cited. "Whosoever
would evoke the devil must sacrifice to hint a dog, a cat and a hen ; these animals must be the
property of the operator, who must also pledge himself to eternal fidelity and obedience, and
must receive a special mark upon his body impressed by the devil himself. His recompense is
an absolute control over three infernal spirits, respectively of earth, water and air ." Some
obscure demonologist is most likely the authority for this process, which is unknown to the
Grimoires. It should be added that the Vocabulaire Infernal was compiled in the Catholic
interest-though it looks as if that interest had been in traffic with Satan.
This preparation being one of the most important preliminaries of Goetic Art, will be
givien with all its variations as they are found in the four chief Grimoires. For the sacrificial
portions of the Grand Grimoire and that of Honorius, see Chapters VI. and VII.
a The process in the Grimorium Verum isan adaptation of that in the Key ofSolomon.
The English edition of the Clavicle reads, Zohar, Zio, Talmai, Adonai, Shaddai, Tetra-
grammaton.
'7IThe Book of Ceremonial Magic
virtue unto this skin, that it may beproferly conserved, and that
all things thereon written may attain their perfection.
After the skinning, take salt well pounded ; stretch the
skin ; strew your salt upon it so as to cover the whole surface.
But first let the salt be blest in the following manner :-
EXORCISM OF THE SALT
I exorcise thee, creature of salt, by the living God, by the
God of gods and the Lord of lords, that all illusions may depart
from thee, and that so thou mayst serve to make the virgin
chart.
BENEDICTION OF THE SALT
God of gods and Lord of lords, Who hast created all things
out of nothing, and hast sj5ecially designed salt for human
health, bless )JA and sanctify this salt, and may I so use it that
ail things which are in this circle may receive the required
virtue for that effect which we desire. Amen.
This ended, place your salted skin in the rays of the sun
for the space of one day. Then prepare a vessel of glazed
clay and write the characters of Guland and Surgat (Chap. III.
Sec. 2) about it with the pen and ink of the Art. Set quick-
lime slaked with exorcised water in the pot, and while it is
liquid place your skin therein, and so leave it till it peels of
itself. When the hair is ready to fall at the touch of a finger,
take it from the pot and peel it with a knife of hazel-wood, over
which you have pronounced these words : Most Holy ABOEZRA,
be .pleased to impart such virtue unto this wood that I may
cleanse this skin therewith, through Thy Holy Name AGASON.
Amen.
172The Initial Rites and Ceremonies
This done, and the skin being also cleansed, stretch the
same upon a board of new wood, and round about it set
stones of the same length as the sides of the skin. But first
say over them the prayer which here follows
PRA YER
0 ADONAY, most strong and powerful God, grant that these
stones may stretch this skin, and do Thou remove from them all
illusion, so that by Thyftower they may possess the virtue which
we desire. Amen.
This done, the skin may be left to dry, but before quitting
it recite the following
PRA YER
JE, AGLA, JOD, HOI, HE, EMMANUEL, be ye guardians of
this parchment or skin, so that no phantoms may possess it.
This finished, leave it in the air until it be dried,' taking
care that the place is clean and has been asperged while
reciting the following holy words : In the name of the immortal
God, may God asfterge thee and cleanse thee from all delusion
and from all wickedness ; so shalt thou be whiter than snow.
Amen.
When the skin is dry, take it from the board, bless it with
aspersion and fumigation, and, preserve it for use. It must not
be seen by women, especially in their times, for it will lose its
virtue, and whosoever makes this parchment must be, in like
manner, most pure and clean and chaste. Let him say a Mass
of the Nativity, whether it be the day of the Feast or another
1 which should be in the space of three days, according to the Clavicle .
I73The Book of Ceremonial Magic,
day, and note that all the instruments must be generally on
the Altar.'
The Book of True Black Magic reproduces with further
variations the process of the genuine Clavicle :-Secure the
animal which is to furnish the parchment in a secret place,
where no one dwells or can behold it. Then take a virgin rod ;
shape it into the form of a knife with the white-handled Knife
of the Art, paring it neatly of all branches. Over this say : I
conjure thee, Rod, by the Creator of the Universe and the
King of Angels, Whose name is HELSADAY ! 2 Receive thou
power and virtue to skin this animal for the making of the
parchment, that so all things which I shall write thereon may
prosper, by God Almighty, Who liveth and reigneth for ever
and ever. Amen. When shaping this knife recite the Psalm
Deus, judicium tuum Regi da.' Then write these words upon
the Rod : AGLA, ADONAY, ELOE,4 may the work of this wooden
Knife be accomplished by you ! Say also over it : CARA, CHERNA,
SITO, CIRNA.5 Next, skin the animal with the same wooden
knife, saying : ADIRAM, DAHNAY, SADAY, TETRAGRAMMATON,
ANERETON, ANERETON, CURETON,6 Holy Angels of God, be ye
present and give virtue to this parchment. May it be con-
secrated by you, and thus may all things which shall be written
therein acquire the virtue needful for the attainment of the
desired end. . . .
When you have skinned it, take salt and say over it : God
ofgods, vouchsafe to bless and sanctify this salt, so that it may
cleanse the parchment which I am about to prepare therewith,
and that both may obtain virtue, power and effect. . . . Salt the
' The Grimorium Verum exhibits the transition of the Rituals from the purely Jewish
elements of the Keyof Solomon to the purely Christian materials of the Grimoire of Honorius.
s i.e., El Shaddai. 3 Psalm lxxi. of the Vulgate. ' i.e., Elohim,or Eloah.
c These words are peculiar to the Grimoire, and their significance is beyond conjecture .
' See Note on p. 171-
174The Initial Rites and Ceremonies
skin and set it in the sun for fifteen days ; next take a pot of
glazed clay and write these characters about it ; place a large
piece of quicklime with some blessed water in this vessel, and
when the lime is slaked, steep the skin for the space of
nine whole days therein, after which it must be extracted and
scraped with a wooden knife to remove the hair . Let it dry
for eight days in the shade, but when setting it to dry, asperge
it and say : In the Name of the Great Eternal God, I asperge
thee. Be thou cleansed from all vice and iniquity ! [When dry]
perfume it with sweet-smelling herbs ; 'wrap it in the silken
cloth with the other instruments of the Art ; and take notice that
if it be seen by a woman in her times, it will lose all its virtue .
But if this kind of parchment be too difficult to prepare,'
take virgin parchment of any animal ; exorcise it as before ;
place lighted coal in a new glazed pot ; mix good perfumes
therewith ; and hold your parchment above the vessel to re-
ceive them. Before all,
however, write these char-
2
acters about the pot with
the instruments of the Art.
So long as the fumigation goes on, say : Angels of God, be my
hej, and by you be my work accomj5lished! . . . When it is
finished, say : LAZAY, SALMAY, DALMAY, ANEPATON, CENDRION,
ANITOR, ENCHEION,' Holy Angels of God, be ye present and
I The shorter process is not so good, says the Clavicle.
z The Keyof Solomon provides characters for the parchment but not for the pot. They
are, moreover, entirely different.
z The Key of Solomon reads : Zazaii, Zalmaii, Dalmal, Adonai, Anaphaxeton, Cedrion,
Cripon, Prion, Anaireton, Elion, Octinomon, Zevanion, Alazaion, Zideon, Agla, On, Yod He
You He, Artor, Dinotor.
175The Book of Ceremonial Magic
give virtue to this parchment, so that it may in turn acquire
that of alt characters with which it shall be inscribed, by the
help of the pious and merciful God. . . . Recite the Psalms
Deus, judicium tuum Regi da and Laudate Dominunn omnes
genies, adding the following
CONJURA TION
I conjure thee, creature of parchment, by all the names of
God, that nothing which shall be written within thee may ever
be blotted from truth.
Lastly, asperge it and place it in the silken cloth, as above.
The Grimorium Verum indulges the weak pupil by a further
simplification, as follows :-If you are unable to prepare the
parchment yourself, buy a new one and conjure it asperge also
and fumigate it three times. Ther sacrifice, with its delays and
unpleasantness, is thus abrogated, and the operator can proceed
at once to the practical mystery of the Sanctum Regnum. It
would also appear that parchment or vellum proper may be dis-
pensed with in favour of :-(a.) The skin of some other animal,
which would, however, involve a like process ; or (b.) the caul
of a new-born child, which would, of course, possess the requi-
site virgin character, and was simply consecrated according to
the following instructions, as found in True Black Magic.'
When you have succeeded in obtaining the caul of a new-
born child, perfume the same with sweet odours and sprinkle it,
after which say the following Psalms : Domine, exaudi oratio-
nem meam, and Domine, Deus meus, respite in me, with the
conjuration hereunto attached :-BOSMELETIC, JEYSMY, ETH,
1 The Key ofSoloman merely observes that the cauls of newly-born children, duly conse-
crated, may be used instead of virgin parchment, and that paper, satin, or silk may also be
employed in operations of less importance.
176The Initial Rites and Ceremonies
HODOMOS, BELUREOS. 0 Lord, Who didst make all things in
wisdom ;. Who didst choose Abraham, Thy first believer, and his
seed path multiplied like the stars of heaven ; Who didst appear
unto Moses, Thy servant, surrounded with flaming fire, and
didst make known to him Thy names, which are HEIE, ACER,
H EIE 1-that is to say, I am that I am ; Who didst also lead
forth Thy people dry-shod over the Red Sea ; Who unto Moses,
Thy servant, didst give the Law of Salvation on Mount Sinai ;
Who unto Solomon didst impart wisdom above the measure of
men : I humbly adore Thy majesty and beseech Thy mercy,
praying Thee to consecrate this skin by Thy virtue, 0 Most
Holy ADONAY, Whose reign endurethfor ever. Amen.
Asperge the caul with the blessed water of the Art, place
it in the silken cloth, and when working the exorcisms, the
requisitions made to the spirits must be written on this skin,
which should be fumigated with stinking odours.
§ 8. Concerning Aspersion and Cleansing
In the preparation of the instruments, as already abundantly
evident, and in the more important works which follow it . the
ceremonies of aspersion and fumigation, that is, of purifying and
consecrating, are continually enjoined. Sprinkling is performed
with the Aspergillus, which, according to the Grimorium Verum,
should be composed of mint, marjory and rosemary, bound
about with a thread woven by a virgin girl . It should be made
on the, day and in the hour of Mercury, the moon waxing. The
ewer, in the canons of procedure established by True Black
Magic, should be a pot. of glazed earth,2 filled with fresh spring
r The mutilations of the Divine Names in the Grimoires are part of the distinguishing
characteristics of these works, and hence they are preserved in the text. It may scarcely be
necessary to inform the student that the words mentioned should read AHiH, ASHR, AHIH.
' The Key of Solomon offers choice between a vessel of brass, of lead varnished within
and without, and of earth.
177 MThe Book of Ceremonial Magic
water, in which some salt has been cast. The following Psalms
should be recited over it :-Domine, ne in furore tuo arguas me,
and Domine, exaudi orationem, meam,' with the addition of this
PRA YER
O Thou most powerful Lord, my God, my rest, and my' life!
Do Thou heJ me, Most Holy Father! In Thee I place my
hope, Who art the God of Abraham, God of Isaac, God ofJacob,
God of the Angels and Archangels, God of the Prophets, and
God the Creator of all things. In all humility, and with the
invocation of Thy Holy Name, I pray that Thou wilt vouchsafe
to bless this water, that in whatsoever place it shall be cast it
may sanctify our bodies and our souls, through Thee, Most Holy
ADONAY, Whose reign is without end. Amen.
The Aspergillus recommended by this Ritual differs some-
what from the former, being of vervain, periwinkle, sage, mint,
valerian, ash and basil, taking care not to use hyssop' but rose-
mary in place thereof. It should be fitted with a handle of
virgin hazel, three palms in length, and bound as before. The
following characters should be engraved on one side of the said
handle :-
vttton~w
This Aspergillus may be used on any occasion with perfect
assurance that all phantoms will be expelled from every place
which shall be sprinkled thereby with water duly exorcised.
The prayer to be used at sprinkling is thus given by the
I Psalm vi. and Psalm xlii. inthe Vulgate.
2 The plant here condemned is prescribed by the Key of Solomon.
178
1The Initial Rites and Ceremonies
Grimorium Verum:-In the Name of God Immortal, may God
asperge thee, N., and cleanse thee from all illusion andfrom all
wickedness, and thou shall be whiter than snow.
e
When asperging add also : In the Name of the Father
and of the Son 1ji and of the Holy Ghost 1j. Amen.
Concerning Incense and Fumigation
The Grimorium Verum prescribes a cruse or chafing-dish
for fumigation, adding, with a decorative redundance correspond-
ing to its impossible spirit, that it should be filled with freshly
kindled coal and fresh fire, the whole blazing. Place aromatics
thereon, and perfume what you would, saying : Angels of God,
be our he p, and by you be our work fu filled! ZAZAY, SALMAY,
DALMAY, ANGERECTON, LEDRION, AMISOR, EUCHEY, OR 1 Great
Angels! And do Thou also, 0 ADONAY, be present and impart
hereto such virtue that this creature may receive a form, where-
by our work may be accomplished! In the Name of the Father j1
andofthe Son )14 andof the Holy Ghost. i14Amen. . . . Recite
the Seven Psalms which follow Judicium tuum Regi da and
Laudate Dominum omnesgenies.1
The perfumes are aloes wood and incense for most occasions,
and mace for the fumigation of the circle. The Book of True
Black Magic omits mace but substitutes benzoin and storax,
and any others at choice, without specific distinction as to the
circle. The following Prayers, Exorcisms and Benedictions, to
be said over the aromatic perfumes, occur in the two Rituals,
the first and third being common to both, and borrowed from
the Key of Solomon ; the second, also referable to the same
source, is not found in the Grimorium Verum.
1 As these Psalms, :Ixxi. and cxvi. in the Vulgate, are widely separated from each other,
and so also in the Authorised Version, it is' difcultito determine those which are referred to
in the text.
'79The Book of Ceremonial Magic
FIRST EXORCISM
O God of Abraham F~1, God of Isaac Fj4, and God ofJacob 1,
vouchsafe to bless and sanctify these creatures, of whatsoever
species they may be, so that they may obtain virtue and power
to discern good spirits from bad, even phantoms and enemies,
through Thee, 0 ADONAY, Who livest and reignest for ever
and ever. Amen.
SECOND EXORCISM
I exorcise thee, 0 impure Spirit, who art the phantom ofthe
Enemy. In the Name of God Almighty, come out from this
kind, with all thy falsehood and wickedness, so that it may
become sanctified and exorcised, in the Name of God Almighty ;
that all virtues may inspire those who partake of this odour ;
that the Spirit of God may descend, and the virtue of the Lord
manifest, in the burning of this sfiecies ; and that no phantom
may dare to accost it. Through the Inefable Name of God
Almighty. Amen.
THIRD EXORCISM
Deign, 0 Lord, to sanctify this creature, so that it may
become a signal remedy for the human race, and the salvation
of our souls and bodies, through the invocation of Thy Most
Holy Name, that so all creatures which inhale the smoke of this
kind may have health of body and soul. Through that Lord
Who hath created the ages of ages. So be it.
This done, sprinkle the perfumes with exorcised water, and
set them aside in the silken cloth for use as prescribed. When
18oThe Initial Rites and Ceremonies
you would fumigate anything, take new coal which has not been
kindled, set it alight, and while it is still black, exorcise it, saying
EXORCISM OF THE LIGHTED COAL
I exorcise thee, 0 creature ofFire, by Him Who hath made
all things / Do thou expet from thee allphantoms, so that they
may in no wise harm or trouble us in our work, by the invoca-
tion of the Most High Creator. Amen. 0 Saviour, Almighty
and merciful, bless Thy creature of this kind, 'so that no harm
may come to him who shallmake use of it.. Amen.
In concluding this portion of its ceremonial, the Book of
True Black Magic states that there are occasions on which
perfumes of a stinking or malodorous kind must be used. As
the first point of their preparation, the operator must say over
them : ADONAY, LAZAY, DELMAY, AMAY, SADAY, ELOY,1 by the
invocation, 0 Saviour, of Thy Most Holy Name, vouchsafe us,
through this kind, the help of Thy grace, and may it assist us
in all things which we need tofu fl; may all malice pass out
herefrom, may it be blessed and sanctified in Thy most powerful
Name. Amen.
Asperge the stinking perfume with exorcised water, place
it in the silken cloth and use it as needed, but always in the
name of the Most Holy ADONAY. So doing, thou shalt obtain
thy desire, says the " Manuscript discovered at Jerusalem in
the Sepulchre of Solomon."2
The names given in the keyof Solomon are Adonai, Lazai,, Dalmai, Ainta, Elohi.
A short way to Magic by means of perfumes is given by Nyrauld in his work on Lycan-
thropy. To discern future events, fumigate yourself with linseed and seed of psellium, or with
roots of violets and wild parsley. To drive away evil spirits and phantoms, make a perfume of
calamon, peony, mint andQalma Christi. To attract serpents, burn the windpipe of a stag ;
to expel them, burn a horn of the same animal. Make a perfume with gall of fish, thyme,
roses and aloe wood. When kindled, sprinkle with water or blood, and presently the whole
house will seem full of water or of blood, as the case may be. Add-earth which has been
turned up by a ploughshare, and the ground will appear to tremble. The enumeration might
be continued almost indefinitely.
181The Book of Ceremonial Magic
g. Concerning the Time of Oj5eration
When the sacrifice of the Art or its substitute has once
been completed, the operator is in,rpossession of all the materials
that he will require ex hypothesi for the performance of Goetic
works as described in the Book of True Black Magic or the
Grimorium Verum. But as the first of these Rituals ordains
that the preparation of the artist shall be made in accordance
with certain planetary influences, so in like manner does it regu-
late the time of operation or accomplishment . The instructions
still follow, and still in a confused manner, the authority of the
Clavicle. It will be well to reproduce them here in a succinct
analysis, though the piecemeal nature of the treatise attri-
buted to Iroe-Grego leaves the rules without much practical
value, while no attention is paid to them by other makers of
Grimoires
Aii experiment of speaking with spirits or conjuring them
should be operated in the day and hour of Mercury, which hour
may be the first or the eighth, but the fifteenth or twenty-second
of the same night will be still better, for spirits appear more
easily in the silence of the dark hours . A certain atmospheric
condition is also required for the experiment of calling spirits,
and an obscure uninhabited place congruous to such an art is
even more necessary, for so only will it be accomplished and
educed. But if the experiment be concerned with a theft,' it
should be performed in the hour of the Moon and on her day
-if it be possible, in the crescent Moon-from the first to the
eighth hour, or, failing this, at ten o'clock in the night. It is
better, however, in the day, because the light has more corre-
1 An experiment of this kind is reproduced by the Grimoire from the Key of Solomon, but
does not call for inclusion either by its connection with Black Magic-for there is no connec-
tion, or by any inherent interest-for there is again none.
182The Initial Rites and Ceremonies
spondence to the intention, that is, to the manifestation of hidden
things. The experience of invisibility` should be operated
when the Moon is in Pisces. Experiments of love, favour and
grace' should be accomplished on the day and in the hour of
the Sun or Venus, from the first to the eighth hour, with the
Moon in Pisces. Works of destruction, hatred and desolation a
should be performed on the day and in the hour of Saturn, from
the first or eighth to the fifteenth or twenty-second hour of the
night ; they are then certain. Burlesque and amusing experi-
ments are performed on the day of Venus, in the first and the
eighth hour, or in the fifteenth and twenty-second hour of the
night. Extraordinary experiences should be operated in corre-
sponding hours on the day of Jupiter.4
' See Chapter VIII.
See Venereal Experiments in Chapter VIII.
s See Chapter VIII.
The chapter on Extraordinary Experiments in theKey of Solomonis rendered unintelligible
by want of details. It reappears in the Grimoire, but is omitted from this translation for the
reason indicated.
G Z)
I
SATAN BOUND. ON PRE-NORMAN CROSS
SHAFT AT KIRKBY STEPHEN,
WESTMORLAND.
1 83CHAPTER III
Concerning the )eocenbfng 1ieeaecbp
§ i. The Names and Offices of Evil Sj5irits
N all matters of ceremonial the inspiration of the Grimoires
must be sought in the Key of Solomon proper, but for the
I
names and offices of the demons it must be sought in the
Lesser Key. The hierarchy, according to the Lemegeton, with
its accompanying evoking processes, will be given in the fourth
chapter, as there is no special reason for separating it from the
practical context. I shall therefore deal in this place with the
simpler though later summaries, which will prevent these curious
issues from being confused:
The Book of True Black Magic, like its prototype the
original Clavicle, gives no account of the nature of the Spirits
with which it professes to deal, and, as already seen, it breaks
off abruptly at the point where the conjuring formulae should
follow to complete the work. This Secret of Secrets, as the
Grimoires term the methods for raising and discharging spirits,
being omitted, it may now be dismissed from consideration till
we come to the minor processes of Ceremonial Magic, chiefly
venereal and fantastic, which are grouped in the eighth chapter .
The Grimoire of Honorius mentions by name four kings,
referred to the cardinal points, and seven lesser spirits to be
invoked on the days of the week, but as will appear later on,
there is no explicit notice of the Descending Hierarchy. These
'84Concerning the Descending Hierarchy
deficiencies are _supplied by the Grimorium 1 erum and the
Grand Grimoire.
-THE SEAL AND CHARACTERS OF LUCIFER THE SEAL AND CHARACTERS OF BEELZEBUTH
As regards spirits, says the former, some are superior and
others inferior. The three superior
are Lucifer, 'Beelzebuth and Astaroth.
According to the latter, Lucifer is
Emperor ; Beelzebuth, Prince ; and
Astaroth, Grand Duke. They must
be invoked by means of the char-
acters which they themselves have
made known, and these characters
must be written with the blood of the
operator, or with that of a sea-tortoise .
Failing this, they may be engraved
on an emerald or ruby, for both these
THE SEAL AND CHARACTERS
stones have great sympathy with OF ASTAROTH
spirits, especially with those of the solar race, who are wiser,
I$51
The Book of Ceremonial Magic
better and more friendly than the rest.' The character must
be worn upon the person ; in the case of a male, it should be
placed in the right pocket, but a female must carry it between
the breasts, towards the left side, like a reliquary . It should
be graven or written on the day and in the hour of Mars for
both sexes, and apparently in the case of each of the three
spirits.
The lord commands the servants, so the Grimoire proceeds,
and these three spirits can do all things. But the operator is
advised that he shall obey those who obey him, because the
exalted and powerful spirits serve only their confidants and in-
timate friends. He is further grimly warned to keep upon his
guard lest any spirit should seize him unawares. Each of the
rulers has two chief officers, who announce to the subjects all
things which their lord hath commanded throughout the world,
and ordain all that is to be done. The inferiors of Lucifer are
Put Satanachia and Agaliarej5t; they inhabit Europe and Asia.
Those of Beelzebuth are Tarchimache and Fleurety; they dwell
in Africa. Those of Astaroth are Sargatanas and Nebiros,
whose asylum is America, so that this kind of Magic is pre-
sumably post-Columbian.
The Grand Grimoire does not distribute the six subordinate
spirits among three rulers, but enumerates them somewhat
differently, together with their dignities, as follows :Q-
1 The attribution is somewhat confused; the ruby is a solar stone, but Albertus Parvus
attributes the emerald to the Moon, which would establish its connection with evocation.
9 The Hierarchy according to Wierus is at variance with both the Rituals, and may be
worth quoting on account of its curious details :-
PRINCES AND GRAND DIGNITARIEs.-Beelzebuth, Supreme Chief of the Infernal Empire,
founder of the Order of the Fly. Satan, Leader of the Opposition. Euronymous, Prince of
Death, Grand Cross of the Order of the Fly. Moloch, Prince of the Land of Tears, Grand
Cross of the Order. Pluto, Prince of Fire. Leonard, Grand Master of Sabbaths, Knight of
the Fly. Baalberith, Minister of Treaties. Proserpine, Arch-she-devil, Sovereign Princess of
Mischievous Spirits. MINISTERS.-Adramelek, Lord High Chancellor, Grand Cross of the
Order of the Fly. Astaroth, Grand Treasurer. Nergal, Chief of the Secret Police. Baal,
186Concerning, the Descending Hierarc y
LUCIFUGE ROFOCALE.-Prime Minister.
SATANACHIA.--Commander-in-Chief.
AGALIAREPT.-Another Commander.
FLEURETY.-'Lieutenant-General.
SARGATANAs.--Brigadier-Major..
NEBIROS.----Field-Marshal and Inspector-General.
It will be seen that the principalities of Infernus are chiefly
represented in thelight ofa standing army, yet their interference
in earthly matters is not ofa militarykind. LUCIFUGE ROFOCALE
has the control, with which Lucifer has invested him, over all
the wealth and treasures of the world. His subordinates are
Baal,' Agares 2 and Marbas.s The grand SATANACHIA has the
power of subjecting all wives and maidens to his wishes, and
of doing with them as he wills. His subordinates are Pruslas,
Aamon' and Barbatos.s AGALIAREPT has the faculty of dis-
covering arcane secrets in all the courts and council-chambers
of the world ; he also unveils the most sublime mysteries . He
commands the Second Legion of Spirits, and his subordinates
are Buer," Gusoyn I and Bot%s.' FLEURETY has the power
to perform any labour during the night and to cause hailstones
Commander-in-Chief of the Infernal Armies, Grand Cross of the Order of the Fly. AMsAS-
seDoas.Bdphegor in France, Mammon in England, Belial in Turkey, Rimmon in Russia,
Thamua in Spain, Hutgin in Italy, Martinet in Switzerland. juDGas.-Lucifer, Lord Chief
justice. Alastor, Commissioner of Public Works. ROYAL HovsaHOLD.-herdelet, Master of
Ceremonies. SuccorBenoth, Chief of the Eunuchs. Champs, Lord High Chamberlain, Knight
of the Fly. Mekhom, Paymaster. Misrach, Grand Steward. Behemoth, Grand Cup-Bearer.
,Dagon, Grand Pantler. Mullin, First Gentleman of the Bedchamber. MASTERS OF THE
REvaLS.-Kobal, Stage Manager. Asmodeus, Superintendent of Casinos. Nybbas, Chief
Mimic. Antichrist,juggler and Mimic.
1 Bealis the first Spirit of the Lemegeton, and a King ruling in the East.
6 The second Spirit of the Lemegeton.
6 The fifth Spirit of the Lemegeton.
6 Possibly Paimon, ninth' Spirit of the Lemegeton.
6 The eighth Spirit of the Lemegeton.
6 The tenth Spirit of the Lemegeton.
o Eleventh Spirit of the Lemegeton.
6 The seventeenth Spirit of the Lemegeton.
187The Book of Ceremonial Magic
in -any, required place. He controls a prodigious army of,
spirits, and has Bathsin I (or Bathing), Pursan and `E4orI
as his subordinates. SARGATANAS has the power to make
any person invisible, to transport him anywhere, to open all
locks, to reveal whatsoever is taking place in private houses,
to teach all the arts of the shepherds. He commands several
Brigades of Spirits, and has Zoray, Valefar and Faraiifor his
immediate inferiors. NEBIROS has the power . to inflict evil
on whomsoever he will ; he discovers the Hand of Glory and
reveals every virtue of metals, minerals, vegetables, as also of
all animals, both pure and impure. He possesses the art of
predicting things_ to come, being one of the greatest -tecro-
mancers in all the Infernal Hierarchies ; he goes to and fro
everywhere and inspects the, hordes of perdition. His imme-
diate subordinates are Ay.peros, Naberrs and Glassyalabolas. -
It is added that there are millions of other spirits in sub-
jection to those which have been mentioned, but their enumera-
tion serves no purpose, as they are required only when it
pleases the superiors to employ them in their owri place, for
the latter make use of all the inferior Intelligences like work-
men or slaves.
The Grimorium Verum, however, mentions seventeen of
the most important subordinate spirits, who seem to correspond
with the ministers of the
six great leaders mentioned
above, but there is little'
unanimity among makers of
magical rituals, whether white
or black.
CHARACTER OF CLAUNRCK
CLAUNECK has powerover
goods and riches ; he can discover hidden treasures to him
i The eighteenth Spirit of the Lemegeton.
e The fifteenth Spirit of the Lemegeton.
188Concerning the - Descending Hierarchy
who makes pact with him ; he can bestow great wealth, for he
is well loved -by Lucifer. He brings money from a distance.
--Obey him, and he will obey thee.
MOSISIN has power over great lords ; he instructs them in
all that passes in the Republics and the realms of the Allies.
f
CHARACTER OF MUSISIN CHARACTER OF BECHARD
BECHARD has power over winds and tempests, over light-
ning, hail and rain, by means of a charm with toads and other
things of this nature, &c.
CHARACTER OF FRIMOST
FRIMOST has power over wives and maids, and will help
thee to enjoy them.
KHIL occasions greatt earthquakes.
CHARACTER. OF KHII,
CHARACTER OF MERSILDE
MERSILDE can transport thee instantaneously wheresoever
may be desired.
189The Book of Ceremonial Magic
CLISTHERET makes day or night about thee at pleasure.
CHARACTER OF CLISTHERET
SIRCHADE has power to shew thee all kinds of animals, A
whatsoever nature they may be.
CHARACTER OF SIRCHADE CHARACTER OF SEGAL
SEGAL causes all manner of prodigies visibly, both natural
and supernatural.
HIEPACTH will bring thee a distant person in an instant.
CHARACTER OF HIEPACTH CHARACTER OF HUMOTS
HUMOTS can transport all manner of books for thy pleasure.
IgoConcerning the Descending Hierarchy
FRUCISSIERE brings the dead to life.
CHARACTER OF FRUCISSIERE
GULAND can cause all varieties of disease .
CHARACTER OF GULAND CHARACTER OF SURGAT
SURGAT opens all locks.
0 an
Pas
-R,
gA
CHARACTER OF .MORAIL
MORAIL has the power to make everything in the world
invisible.The Book of Ceremonial Magic
FRUTIMIERE dights thee all kinds of festivals.
H UICTIIGARA occasions sleep and waking in some, - and
afflicts others with insomnia.
SATANACHIA and SATANICIA govern forty-five, or, as some
say, fifty-four demons, four of whom are Sergutthy, Heramael,
Trimasel and Sustugriel. Two of these rank as chief. The
rest are of no great importance.
These are serviceable spirits, who act easily and quickly,
CHARACTER OF HUICTIIGARA
CHARACTER OF FRUTIMIERE
provided that they are content with the operator. Sergutthy-
has power over wives and virgins, when the occasion is favour-
able. Heramael -teaches the art of medicine, gives absolute
knowledge of all diseases, with their full and radical cure,
makes known all plants in general, the places where they
grow,. the times of their gathering, their virtues also and their
composition for the attainment of a perfect cure . Trimasel
teaches chemistry and all sleight of hand . He imparts the
192Concerning the Descending Hierarchy
true' secret for confecting the powder of projection which changes
imperfect metals-lead, iron, pewter, copper and quicksilver-
into true good- silver and good gold, namely, Sun and Moon,
according to the ferment thereof. Only he must be satisfied
with the operator, if the operator would be satisfied with him.
Sustugriel teaches magical art ; he gives familiar spirits for all
things that can be desired, and furnishes mandragores.
galaere.Pt and Tarihimal govern Eleloga~, whose power
is over water. The two Nebirots rule Hael and Sergulath.
Hael instructs -in the art of writing all kinds of letters, gives
an immediate power of speaking all kinds of tongues and
explains the most secret things. Sergulxth furnishes every
manner of speculation, teaches tactics and the breaking of hostile
ranks. They have eight powerful inferiors. i. Proculo, who
gives sleep for twenty-four hours, with knowledge of the spheres
of sleep. 2. Haristum, who gives the power of passing un-
singed through the fire. 3. Brulefer, who makes one loved
by women. 4. Pentagnony, who renders invisible and also
beloved by great lords. 5. Aglasis, who transports through
the whole world. 6. Sidragrosam, who makes girls dance
stark naked. 7. Minosan, who insures winning in all games.
8. Bucon, who has the power to excite hatred and jealousy
between the -two sexes.
2. Concerning the Forms of Infernal Spirits in their
Manifestations
Having regard to the nature and antecedents of the In-
telligences with which Black Magic professes to be concerned,
it must be highly important that the operator should know the
kind of apparitions which may be expected, when, despite the
incredulity of Horatio, the spirits from the vasty deep do
193 NThe Book of Ceremonial Magic
respond to conjuration. The majority of the Grimoires leave it
to be inferred from their silence that they come in human shape
-possibly in " a neat surcoat and snow-white linen," like the
Adonay of the sorcerer in the Thaumaturg is Experiences of
Eliphas Levi. With the Composite Rituals it is always a
subject of apprehension, and a peaceable manifestation is
earnestly bargained for.
According to the Grimorium Verum, the spirits do not
invariably manifest under the same forms, and we have had
some surprising specimens of their mutations in the earlier texts
being disengaged from all matter, they must of necessity borrow
a body in order to appear before us,' and then they assume any
shape and figure which seems good to them . Beware, however,
lest they affright thee-is another pregnant warning . Lucifer
appears under the form and figure of a comely boy ; when
angered, he is shewn with a ruddy countenance, but there is
nothing monstrous in his shape. Beelzebuth appears occasion-
ally under monstrous forms, such as the figure of a misshapen
calf, or that of a goat having a long tail; at the same time he
manifests most frequently under the semblance of an enormous
fly' When angered, he vomits floods of water and howls like
a wolf. Astaroth appears of a black and white colour, usually
under a human figure, but occasionally in the likeness of
an ass.
The subject of Infernal Manifestations is, however, fully
treated in the next chapter. The indications in the present
section are merely the later variants.
1 A portion of this statement is derived from the KeyofSolomon; but whereas it is put
clearly in the Grimoire, it is incomplete and inconsequent in the original. Itis the alternative
aspect of the Kabalistic principle that the spirit clothes itself to come down and divests itself
to return upward. When the abyss givesup forms its capacity of manifestation is Protean, but
the most beloved tendency is monstrous. And the forms disrobe for the abyss to open and
receive them when they go back to their cover.
s A giant, a serpent, a woman, are also other modes of his manifestation, according to the -
discretion of demonologists.
19'4CHAPTER IV
Cb :t I,potetf of Ootttc tbeurgp according to the
Loner Sep of %olomon the Eking
Concerning the Spirits of the Brazen Vessel, otherwise
called the False Monarchy of Demons S
HE Goetic Art ;of Solomon gives instructions for the
T
evocation of the seventy-two spirits whom the King
of Israel, according to a well-known legend, shut up
in a brass vessel and cast into a deep lake. When the vessel
was discovered by the Babylonians, it was supposed to con-
tain a great treasure and was accordingly broken open. The
spirits who were, thus set at liberty, together with their legions,
returned to their former places, Belial excepted, who entered
into a certain image, and gave oracles to the people of the
country in return for sacrifices and divine honours, by which
there is corrupt Kabalistic authority for concluding that demons
were assuaged and sustained. Their names and offices are as
follows :-
1 Though a work of considerable length, thisLesser Key, sofar as it concerns our inquiry,
admits of reduction into a manageable compass by the omission of tiresome and egregious par-
ticulars as to the number of spirits who are subject to a particular Lord, Prince or Emperor,
and are liable to appearinhis company. It should be understood in a general way that there
are hundreds and thousands and millions, according to the dignity of the bierarch ; they must
hive beena source of considerable inconvenience, and even of dismay, to the operator 1
195Book of Ceremonial Magic
I. BAAL, a king ruling in the East,
who imparts invisibility and wisdom.
W-1I He appears with a human head, or with
.V that of a toad or cat,' but sometimes
,/
with all at once. He speaks with a
hoarse voice.2
THE SEAL OF BAAL
II. AGARES, a duke ruling in the East, who appears in the
form of a comely old man, ambling upon- a crocodile and
carrying a goshawk on , his wrist. He makes those who run
am
b,
THE SEAL OF AGARES SEAL OF, VASSAGO SEAL OF VASSAGO USED
IN WHITE MAGIC
stand still, brings back runaways, teaches all languages, de-
stroys spiritual and temporal dignities and causes earthquakes.3
He is of the Order of the Virtue s.4
I The "cat is the traditional domestic favourite, not only of those who diabolise, but of the
diabolical world itself, which shews that after all there is a strong link with humanity in the
cohorts of Lucifer. The reader will remember that the cat falls on its feet, not by natural good
luck, but by the special dispensation of Mohammed, and that the favourite of the Prophet is in
I'aradise, no doubt on the best terms with the dog of the Seven Sleepers.
Another codex says that he manifests with three heads-the first like a toad, the second
like a man and the third like a cat.'
' According to the Vocabulaire Infernal, the special province ofAguresis to put to :flight
the enemies of those whom he protects.
' That is, he belonged to this choir during the first estate of the Fallen Angels.
196The Mysteries of Goetic Theurgy
III. VASSAGO, a mighty prince,, of the nature of 4gares,
who declares things past, present and future, and discovers
what has been lost or hidden. He is good by nature',
IV. GAMYGYN, a great marquis, appearing in the form of a
small horse or ass, but afterwards in human shape. H e speaks
hoarsely, teaching the liberal sciences, and giving news of souls
who have died in sin.2 -
V. MAARBAS,a a president, who appears as a mighty lion,
F
s---
-r--
r
THE SEAL OF GAMYGYN
and then in human shape.' He answers 'truly concerning all
things hidden or secret, causes and cures diseases, imparts skill
in mechanics, and changes men into various shapes.'
VI. VALEFOR,' a powerful duke, appearing as a many-
headed lion.' He leads those with whom he is familiar into
theft.
1 This may account for his invocation, especially in Ceremonial Crystallomancy, by the
putative adepts of White Magic-as the most dubious of all arts is called in the scorn of its
professors.
I According to Wierus, he summons into the presence of the exorcist the souls of drowned
men and of those detained in Purgatory, called magically Cartagra-that is, the affliction of
souls. They assume an aerial body, are visible to sight and reply to questions. Another
version says that Gamygyn tarries with the exorcist till he has accomplished his desires.
OrBarbas.
4 At the request of the operator (Wierus).
s He is the third spirit in the Hierarchy of Wierus.
Or Malaphar.
° With the head of a hunter or a thief, says Wierus. He shews friendship to his familiars
till they are caught in the trap.
197The Book of Ceremonial Magic
VII. AMON,, a strong and powerful marquis, who appears
like a wolf with a -serpent's head' and
vomiting flame. When so ordered,, he
r
assumes a human shape, but with the
teeth of a dog.' He discerns past and
future, procures love and reconciles friends
and foes.
THE SEAL OF AMON
V III. BARBATOS, a great count and duke, who appears
when the sun is in Sagittarius with four
noble kings and three companies of troops ;
he gives instruction in all the sciences,
////∎
reveals treasures concealed by enchant-
ment, knows the past and future, recon-
THE SEAL OF BARBATOS
ciles friends and those in power, and is -
of the Order of the Virtues.'
IX. PAIMON,is great king, very obedient to Lucifer." He
appears like a crowned man seated
on a dromedary, preceded by all
0 0 0 manner of musicians. He speaks
" with a roaring voice, teaches all
arts, sciences and secrets, gives and
THE SEAL OF PAIMON
confirms dignities, makes men sub-
ject to the will of the Magician, provides good familiars . He
is observed towards the North-West, and is of the Order of
Dominions.'
1 Cauda serpsnIis, says Wierus.
s And, according to anotherMS., "a great head like to a, mighty raven."
s He also understands the songs of birds and` the language of all other animals (Wierus) .
A longer recension says: By Lucifer is here to be understood he that was drowned in the
depths of his knowledge. He would needs be like God and for his pride and arrogancy was
thrown out into destruction. Of him it is said-Every precious stone is thy covering. The
last reference is to the panegyric of the Prince of Tyre in Ezekiel : its occurrence in this place
is most remarkable.
s It appears from Wierus that the operator may fail to understand this spirit,-in which
case be must stretch forth the character belonging to him and command him to speak clearly .
198The Mysteries of Goetic Theurgy .
X. BUER,i a great president, who, appears when the sun
is in Sagittarius and teaches philosophy, logic, the virtues of
herbs, &c. He heals all diseases and gives good familiars.
0401h
THE SRAL OF BURR THE SEAL OF GUSION
XI. GUSION,2 a mighty duke, who appears like a cyno-
cephalus, discerns the past, present and future, answers all
questions, reconciles enemies and gives honour and dignities .
XI I. SYTRY, a great prince, who appears with a leopard's
THE SEAL OF SYTRY THE SEAL OF BELETH
head and the wings of a griffin, but assumes a beautiful human
form at the Magician's command. He procures love between
the two sexes, and causes women to shew themselves naked.3
XI II. , BELETH,4 a terrible and mighty king, riding on a
pale horse, preceded by all manner of musicians. He is very
1 Tb seventh spirit of thePseudo-Monarchia. He is also an exponent of ethics.
s Otherwise:, Gusayn, the eighth spirit of wierus,, and Pirsoyn, according to the variant of
another MS.
$ jussus se reta libenter detegit feminarum, eas ridass!ludificansque ut se luxorise UUdetit.
--Wierus.
4 Otherwise, Bykth. Some codices give considerable space to this demon and the pre-
cautions to be taken concerning him.
199The Book of Ceremonial Magic
furious when first summoned, and must be commanded into a
triangle or circle with the hazel wand of the, Magician pointed
to the South-East. He must be received courteously and
with homage, but a silver, ring must be worn on the- middle
finger of the left hand, which must he held against the face .
.&~
•
I '' *M
f
f
fy
4WtliWWWI<l 4r f
THE SEAL OF LERAJIE THE SEAL OF ELIGO$
He procures love between man and woman . and is of the
Order of the Powers.'
XIV. LERAJIE, a powerful marquis, coming in the likeness
of an archer, clad in green and bearing bow and quiver . He
occasions battles and causes arrow-wounds to putrefy .
XV. ELIGOR, a great, duke, appearing as a goodly knight
THE SEAL OF ZEFAB THE SEAL OF BOTIS
carrying a lance, pennon. and sceptre. He discovers hidden
things, causes war, marshals armies, kindles love and lust.'
XVI. ZEPAR, a great duke, who appears in red apparel and
armed like a soldier. He inflames women with love for men
1 He yet hopes to be restored to the Seventh Thrones-" which is not altogether'crediible,"
according to one of the versions.
s Alternatively, he procures the favour of lords and knights.
200-The Mysteries of Gaetic Theurgy
and can transform them into other shapes till they have been
enjoyed by their lovers.'
XVII. BOTIs, a great president and earl, who appears like
a horrid viper, but, when commanded, assumes'a human shape,
with large teeth and horns. He bears a sharp sword in his
hand, discerns past, present and future, reconciles friends
and foes.
XVIII. BATHIN,2 a mighty
duke, who appears like a strong
man with a serpent's tail,
riding on a pale horse. He
knows the virtues of herbs and
precious stones, and can trans-
port men swiftly from one THE SEAL OF BATHIN
country to another.
XIX. SALEOS,s a great duke, who
appears like a brave soldier, riding
on a crocodile and wearing a duke's
crown. He promotes love between the
THE SEAL OF SALEOS
sexes.
XX. PURSON,4 a great king, who
appears like a lion-headed man, carry-
ing a viper in his hand and riding
on a bear; preceded by many trum=
peters. He conceals and discovers
treasure, discerns past, present and
THE SEAL OF PthESON
future, gives true answers respecting
things human and divine, and provides good familiars.5
1 The last statement is on the authority of Wierus. According to another reading, Zepar
makes women barren.
r Otherwise, Bathymor Marthim. ' Called also Z"leos. ' Otherwise, CurS4m.
s He also utters sound doctrine concerning the creation of the world.
201The Book of Ceremonial Magic
XXI. MORAX,I a great earl and
NW
president, who appears like a human-
~
headed bull, and gives skill in astro-
nomy and the liberal sciences, with
good familiars. He knows the virtues
of all herbs and precious stones.
THE SEAL OF MORAX
XXII. IPos,s a mighty earl and prince,
appearing as an angel with a lion's head,'
the webbed feet of a goose and a hare's
tail. He knows the past and future, and
imparts wit and courage.
THE SEAL OF IPOS
XXIII. AINI,' a strong duke, who appears with the body of
a handsome man but having three
heads, the first like a serpent, the
second like a man with two stars on
the forehead and the third like -a cat.
THE SEAL OF AINI
He rides on aviper and carries a blaz-
ing firebrand, with which he spreads destruction. He imparts
much cunning and gives true answers concerning private matters.
XXIV. NABERIUS,6 a
valiant marquis, who ap-
pears in the form of a
crowing cock and flutters
about the circle. He
speaks hoarsely, gives
THE SEAL OF NABERIUS skill in arts and sciences,
especially rhetoric, and restores lost dignities and honours.•
• This spirit is named Foraii by Wierus. Another variant is Forfax.
• Otherwise, Ipes, Ayporos orAypeos.
a According to Wierus, sometimes in the form of an angel and sometimes in that of a crafty
and evil lion. He is termed filthy and obscene, even in the angelic mask.
s CalledAym orHaborym by Wierus. ' i.e., Cerberta.
• Another codex reverses this, saying that he procures the loss of prelaciesand dignities.
202The Mysteries of Goetic
XXV. GLASYALABOLAS,' a mighty
president, who comes in the form of a
dog, but winged like a griffin. He
teaches all' arts and sciences. instan
taneously, incites to bloodshed, is the
leader of all homicides, discerns past
and future, and makes men invisible.
THE SEAL OF GLASYALABOLAS
XXVI. BUNS,, a strong duke, who appears as a three-
headed dragon, the heads being
respectively those of a dog,
griffin and man. . He has a
pleasant voice ; he changes the
places of the dead, causes
demons to crowd round sepul-
T SEAL OF HUNS
chres, gives riches, wise and eloquent, makes men
- answers questions truly.
XXVII. RONOBE,$ a great marquis Iiflft
and earl, appears in a monstrous form ;
. -v
he teaches rhetoric and the arts, gives
a good understanding,, the knowledge
of tongues and favour of friends and
foes.
THE SEAL OF RONOBE
XXV I I I. BERITH,a_ a terrible duke, appearing in the form
1 Alias, Caaerinolaas_ or Caassimola.
s Otherwise, Roneveand Ronove.
• This spirit, says Wierus, is by some calledBeal, but by the Jews Berith and by necro.
mancersBofi orBolfry.
203The Book of Ceremonial Magic
of a soldier in red apparel, with a golden crown, and bestriding
a red horse. The ring used for Beritk
is required for his evocation. He,
gives true answers of things past,
present and to come, turns all metals
into gold, gives and confirms dignities.
H e speaks in a clear and persuasive
voice, but is a great liar and his advice
must nOt be trusted.
THE SEAL OF BERITH
XXIX. ASTAROTH, a great and powerful duke, appears like
a beautiful angel T riding on an infernal
dragon and carrying a viper in his right
hand. He must -not be permitted to
approach on account of his stinking
breath, and the magician must defend
his face with the magic ring. Astaroth
answers truly concerning past, present
and future, discovers all secrets and
gives great skill in the liberal sciences .
THE SEAT, OF ASTAROTH
He will also discourse willingly con-
cerning the fall of spirits$
XXX. FORNEUS, a 'great marquis, appears as a sea-monster.
THE SEAL OF FORNEUS
He teaches all arts and sciences, including rhetoric, gives a
1 Another version says "a foul angel."
s But pretends that he himself was exempt from their lapse (Wierus).
204good reputation and the knowledge oftongues, and causes men
to be loved by their enemies even as by their friends.
XXXI. FORAS,' a great president, who appears in the
form of a strong man
and teaches the virtues
of all herbs and precious
stones, as well as logic
and ethics he makes
men invisible, imparts
wit, wisdom and elo-
THE SEAL OF FORAS
quence, discovers trea=
sores and restores things lost.
XXXII. AsMODAV,' a strong and powerful king, appears
with_ three heads, the first like a bull,
the second like a man and the third
like a ram. He has a serpent's tail,
the webbed feet of a goose and he
vomits fire. He rides an infernal
dragon, carries lance and pennon and
is the chief of the power of Amaymon.
He must be invoked bareheaded," for
otherwise he will deceive. He gives
THE SEAL OF ASMODAY
the ring of virtues, teaches arithmetic,
geomancy and all handicrafts, answers all questions, makes
men invisible, indicates the places of concealed treasures and
guards them, if within the dominion of Amaymon.
XXXIII. GAAP,' a great president and prince,,, .appears
when the sun is in the southern signs, coming in a human
shape and preceded by four powerful kings. He teaches philo-
1 Otherwise, Forsas.
Called also Sydonay.
' Andin a standingposition (Wierus).
4 Alias, Ta¢and- Goof'.
205The Book of Ceremonial Magic
sophy and the liberal sciences, excites love and hatred, makes- ,
men insensible, gives instruction
in the consecration of those things
which belong to the divination
of Amaymon, his king, delivers
familiars out of the custody of
other Magicians, gives true an-
swers as to past, present and
future, transports and returns
men speedily from place to place
THE SEAL OF GAAP
at the .will of the exorcist. He
was of the Order of the Powers.'
XXXIV. FURFUR, a great earl, appears in the form of a
hart, with a fiery tail, and will
not open his mouth till com-
pelled within the triangle!
He then assumes the form
of an angel, speaking with
a hoarse voice. He causes
THE SEAL OF'FURFUR
love between man and wife,
raises thunder, lightning and great winds, gives true answers
about secret and divine things. '
XXXV. MARCxosIAs, a mighty
marquis, appears in the form of
a wolfs with the wings of a griffin,
a serpent's tail and fire issuing
from his mouth. At the com-
mand of the operator he assumes
THE SEAL OF MARCHOSIAS a human form. H e is strong in
battle, gives true answers to all questions and is extremely
' A longer codex says that there were certain exorcists who offered burnt sacrifices to Gaap
and invoked him according to formulae which they pretended to derive from Solomon, but their
real author was Cham, the first who after the flood began to invoke evil spirits.
According to Wierus, he will speak outside the triangle, but what he says will be false.
a Otherwise, a cruel she-wolf
206The Mysteries of Goetic Theurgy
faithful to the exorcist. He belongs to the Order of Domi
nations.'
XXXV I. SoLAS or STOLAS, a powerful prince, appears in
the likeness of a raven and then as a man. He teaches the
art of astronomy and the virtues of herbs and stones .
THE SEAL OF SOLAS THE SEAL OF PH(INIX
XXXVII. PHENix, a great marquis, appears like the bird
of that name, singing dulcet notes in a child's voice.2 When
he assumes human shape at the will of the Magician, he speaks
marvellously of all sciences, proves an excellent poet and fulfils
1
THE SEAL OF HALPAS THE SEAL OF MALPAS
orders admirably. He hopes to return to the Seventh Thrones
in 1200 years.
XXXV I I I. HALPAS, a great earl, appears in the form of a
stockdove, speaking with a hoarse voice. He burns towns,$
1
And expects to return to the Seventh Thrones after 1200 years, but is deceived therein
(Wierus).
I But this is the voice of the syren, so the exorcist must beware, and those also who are
with him.
s Or, according to Wierus, builds them and fills them with armed men .
207The Book of Ceremonial Magic
visits the wicked with the sword and can send men to fields
of war or to other places.
XXXIX. MALPAS, a powerful president, appears at first
a
like a crow, but afterwards, when so commanded, assumes
human form, speaking with a hoarse voice. He brings artificers
swiftly from all parts of the world, destroys the desires and
thoughts" of enemies, gives good familiars and receives a
sacrifice kindly, but will deceive him who offers it,
XL. RAUM,2 a great earl, appears in the form of a -crow,
but assumes human shape
when bidden. He steals trea-
sure, even out of the King's
house, and carries it where
commanded; he destroys cities
and dignities ; - he discerns
THE SEAL OF RAUM past, present and future he
causes love between friends and foes. Finally, he is of the
Order of the Thrones.
XLI. FOCALOR, a strong duke, appears in the form of a
II
∎
THE SEAL OF FOCALOR THE SEAL OF SABNACK
man with the wings of a griffin . He drowns men, sinks war
1 The reading of Wierus is preferable, i.e., Temples and Towers. But the reference, is to
the edifices of enemies. On his own part, he builds houses and high towers wonderfully.
! OrRaym.
208The Mysteries of Goetic Theurgy
ships and has power over the winds and -the sea, but he will
not hurt any one -if commanded to forbear by the exorcist. He
hopes to return to the Seventh Thrones in ro5o years.'
XLII. SABNACK,2 a mighty marquis,= appears in the form
of an armed soldier, having a lion's head and riding' on a pale-
coloured horse. He builds towers, camps, and, cities, fortifies
the same, torments men with wounds and putrid sores swarming
with worms ;s he also gives good familiars.
XLIII. VEPAR,' a great
duke, appears as a mermaid.
He guides the waters and
battleships ; he occasions
storms at sea, when so com-
manded by the Magician.. He
also causes the sea to seem THH ssat, OF vsraa
full of ships ; he occasions death in three days by means of
putrefying sores and worm-eaten wounds.
XLIV. SHAX,' a great marquis, comes in the form of a
stockdove,° speaking with a hoarse voice. He destroys the
sight, hearing and understanding of any man or woman at the
will of the exorcist, steals- money from the king's exchequer
i He is deceived, says wierus, and sosayother codices. $ Alias, Saburac.
s At the command of the magician (Wierus).
' Otherwise, Soar. ' Also CoaxorScox. ' Otherwise, a stork.
209 0The Book of Ceremonial Magic
and returns it in i zoo years. He will transport anything, but
must first be commanded into the triangle ; otherwise he will
deceive the operator. He discovers all hidden things which are
not in the keeping of wicked spirits and gives good familars .I
XLV. VINE, a great -king and earl, appears in a monstrous
THE SEAL OF BIFRONS THE SEAL OF VUAL
form,' but assumes human shape when commanded. He
discerns things hidden, reveals witches and makes known the
past, present and future. At the comfnand of the exorcist he
will build towers, demolish walls and make the waters stormy.
XLVI. BIFRONS, a great earl, appears in a monstrous form
but assumes the human shape when commanded. He gives -
ME '0
THE SEAL OF NAGENTI
proficiency in astrology, geometry and other mathematical arts ;
he teaches the virtue of herbs, precious stones and woods ; he
changes dead bodies, puts them in other places and lights
phantom candles on their graves .
XLVII. VUAL, a great duke, comes at first as an enormous
dromedary, but afterwards assumes human form and speaks in
the Egyptian tongue.,_ He procures the love of women, discerns
' He is also a horse-stealer, when so desireryby the exorcist.
Or as a lion seated on a black horse and holding a viper in his hand.
210The Mysteries of Goetic Theurgy
past, present and future, and excites friendship even between
foes. He was of the Order of the Powers.
XLVIII. HAGENTi, a great president, appears in the shape
of a gigantic bull with the wings of a griffin, but will duly put
on human form. He gives wisdom, transmutes all metals into
gold and turns wine into water.
XLIX. PROCEL appears in the form of an angel, and is a
great and strong duke. He speaks mysti-
cally of hidden things, teaches geometry as
and the liberal sciences, and at the com-
mand of the operator will make a great
commotion, like that of running waters ; up
he also warms waters and tempers baths.'
He was of the Order of the Powers
THE SEAL OF PROCEL
before his fall.
L. FURCAS, a great duke, appears in the form of a cruel
old man, with long beard and hoary hair. He is seated on a
0
THE SEAL OF FURCAS THE SEAL OF BALAM
pale horse and has a sharp spear in his hand. He teaches
philosophy, rhetoric, astronomy, logic, chiromancy and pyro-
mancy-perfectly in all their parts.,'
LI. BALAM, a terrible and powerful king, appears with three
2 Otherwise,Pucel. ° i'e., the thermal springs frequented by sick people.
211The. Book of Ceremonial Magic
heads, the first like that of a bull, the second live that of a man
and the third like a ram's. With the tail of a,serpent and eyes
flaming fire, he rides upon a .furious bear, carrying a goshawk
on his wrist and speaking with a hoarse voice. He gives true
answers as to past, present and future, makes men go invisible,
and imparts wit.'
2
LII. ALLOCEN, a strong duke, appears in. the form of a
soldier, mounted on a great horse, his face. like- that of a lion,
THE SEAL OF ALLOCEN THE SEAL OF CAIM
exceedingly red, his eyes flaming fire, his speech hoarse and
loud. He teaches astronomy and the liberal sciences, and gives
a good familiar.
LIII. CAIM, a great president, appears in the form of a
thrush,' but afterwards in that of a man bearing- a sharp sword
and seeming-as it is said fantastically-to answer in burning
ashes. He is a keen disputant ; he imparts to men the under-
standing of birds' songs, the lowing of cattle, the barking of
dogs and the voice of waters. He gives true answers con-
cerning things to come and was once of the Order of Angels.
LIV. MURMUR, a. great duke and earl, appears in the form
of a soldier, riding on a griffin and having a duke's crown on
1 He is of the Order of the Dominations.
! Otherwise, Alloien andAllocer. ' Or of a blackbird..
212The Mysteries of Goetic Theurgy
his head. He is preceded by two ministers sounding trumpets.
He teaches philosophy perfectly ; he constrains the souls of
the dead to appear and to answer questions. He was partly
of the Order of Thrones and partly of Angels .
LV. OROBAS, a great prince,` appears first like a horse but,
when commanded, in human form. He discovers past, present
and future ; he gives good dignities and advancements, with the
favour of friends and foes ; he will reply concerning the creation
AAAA
4AL
THE SEAL OF GOMORY THE SEAL OF OSE
of the world and Divinity ; he is very faithful to the exorcist
and defends him from temptation by any spirit.
LVI. GoMORY, a powerful duke, appears like a beautiful
woman; ' wearing a ducal crown.' He discovers past, present
and future, as also the whereabouts of hidden treasures ; he
procures the love of women and especially of girls .
LV I I. OsB, a great president, appears at first like a leopard
1 And ridingon a camel (Wierus).
213The Book of Ceremonial Magic
and then in human shape. He gives skill iniall liberal sciences
and true answers concerning divine and secret things. He can
THE SEAL OF AMY
change men into any shape that the exorcist may desire, and
he that is changed will not know it.'
LV I I I. AMY, a great president, comes first as a great
flaming fire and then as a man. He gives perfect knowledge
01-
THE SEAL OF ORIAS
of astrology and the liberal sciences, with good familiars, and
can betray treasures that are kept by spirits.s
LIX. ORIAs, a great marquis, appears in the form of a
1 He can also reduce them to such a state of insanity that they will believe their identity
changed, that they are kings and so forth. The delusion, however, will only endure for one
hour (Wierus).
' He is partly of the Order of the Angels and partly of that of the Powers . He hopes to
return to the Seventh Thrones in I2oo years, which is incredible, says Wierus.
214The Mysteries of Goetic Theurgy
lion bestriding a strong horse ; he has a serpent's tail and holds
two enormous, hissing snakes in his right hand. He teaches
the virtues of the planets and the mansions thereof; he trans-
forms men, gives dignities, prelacies and confirmations, with
the favour of friends and foes.
LX. VAPULA, a strong duke, comes in the form of a lion
THE SEAL OF VAPULA
with griffin's wings. He gives skill not only in manual profes-
sions but also in philosophy and the sciences contained in books
-I suppose, as distinguished from the secret sciences.
LXI. ZAGAN, a great king and president, appears at first
in the form of a bull, with the wings of a griffin, but` after in
THE SEAL OF ZAGAN
human shape. He makes men witty, turns water into wine,
blood into oil and oil into water ; ' he can change any metal into
coin of the realm and can make fools wise.
1 Otherwise, wine into water or into blood.
215The Book of Ceremonial Magic
LXI i. VALAC, a great president, comes as a little boy with
the wings of an angel and riding
on a two-headed dragon. ' He
gives true answers concerning
hidden treasures, tells where
serpents may be seen and- will
deliver them helpless to the
THE SEAL OF VALAC
exorcist.
LXIII. ANDRAS,' a great marquis, comes 'in the form of an
angel, with the head` of a black night-raven, riding upon a
strong black wolf and having a sharp bright sword gleaming
in his hands. He sows discord and will kill the unwary.'
LX IV. FLAUROS, a great duke, appears-at first like a
THE SEAL OF ANDRAS THE SEAL OF FLAUROS
terrible leopard, but at the command of the exorcist he puts on
the shape of a man, with fiery eyes and terrible countenance.
He gives true answers of things past, present and future, but
unless commanded into the . triangle he will deceive the 'exorcist.
He converses gladly of divinity and the creation of the' world,
as also of the fall of spirits, his own included . If desired, he
will destroy and burn the enemies of the operator, nor will he
suffer him to be tempted, by spirits or otherwise.
i Another codex says frankly that he can kill the Master and all his Assistants.
216The . Mysteries of _ Goetic Theurgy
LXV. ANDREALPHUS, a mighty marquis, appears at first in
the form of a peacock, with a great noise, but after puts on
human shape. 'He teaches geometry perfectly and all that
belongs to measurements, astronomy included. He can trans-
form men into the likeness of a bird.
THE SEAL OF ANDREALPHUS THE SEAL OF CIMERIES
LXV I. CIMER Es, a powerful marquis, appears like a valiant
soldier on 'a black horse. He rules the spirits in the parts of
Africa , he teaches grammar, logic and rhetoric, discovers
buried treasures and things lost and ,hidden ; he can make
a man appear like a soldier of his own kind:
C)
=R SEAL OF AMDUSCIAS
,
LXVI I. AMDUSCIAS, a great duke, comes first like an
unicorn, but will stand up at request in human-\.shape, causing
all manner of musical instruments to be heard but not seen.
He makes -trees fall at the will of the operator and gives
excellent familiars.
I XV I i I BELIAL, a mighty king, created next after Lucifer,
appears in the form of a, beautiful angel, seated in a chariot
217The f Ceremonial
Boo" k Magic
of fire and speaking with a pleasant voice. He fell first
amongst the superior angels who went before Michael and other
heavenly angels. He distributes preferences for senatorships,*
THE SEAL OF BELIAL
causes favours of friends and foes and gives excellent familiars . °
He must have offerings and sacrifices made to him.
LXIX. DECARAB1A, a marquis, comes
in the form of a star in a pentacle, but
puts on the image of man at command.
He discovers the virtues of herbs and
precious stones, makes birds seem to
fly before the exorcist and remain with
him as familiars, singing and eating like
THE SEAL OF DECARABIA
other birds.
LXX. SEERS, a mighty prince under Amayman, King of
the East, appears in the form of a beauti-
ful man on a strong, winged horse . He
brings all things to pass suddenly, trans-
ports to any place in the twinkling of
an eye and discovers all thefts. He
THE SEAL OF SEERE is indifferently good or bad, and will
do the will of the operator.
1 He is partly of the Order of the Virtues and partly of that of the Angels. Unless he
be constrained by Divine Power, he will not remain one hour in the truth. He was one of
the vast cohort shut up by Solomon in a brazen vessel and released subsequently by the
Babylonians.
218The Mysteries of . Goetic Theurgy
LXXI. DANTALIAN, a mighty duke, appears in the form of
a man with many faces of men and women ; he has a book
in -his right hand. He, teaches all arts and sciences, declares
all secret counsels, for he knows all human thoughts and can
change them at his will. - He kindles love and shews the
similitude of any person in a vision, wheresoever they may be.
LXXII. ANDROMALIUS, a great duke and earl, appears in
the form of a man holding a serpent in hisr hand. He returns
1 I
THE SEAL OF DANTALIAN THE SEAL OF ANDROMALIUS
stolen goods, reveals the thief, discovers all wickedness and
underhand dealing, as also hidden treasures.
Such are the prime mysteries of Goetia according to the
tradition of the Lemegeton; such is the work which has been
described in the interest of White Magic as distinct from the
Key of Solomon, but highly important and valuable in its own
department.' Viewed in the light of these two-and-seventy
methods of accomplishing all abominations, it would seem that
the three << analogical realms of occult philosophy " are the
three kingdoms which we have known under other names from
our childhood-as " the world, the flesh and the devil." It
I That is the discriminating judgment of Mr. Mathers, who forbears, however, to specify.
I do think that the Lemegetox is very curious and in this sense important, but not for the
reasons which actuated Mr. Mathers presumably.
219The Book of Ceremonial Magic
will be unnecessary after their enumeration to argue any longer
upon the distinction between Black and White Magic as it
appears in one of the oldest and best of the Rituals. There
is no longer any need touinquire whether the operator_ is saved
by his intention, for we are acquainted with the nature of the
intentions which govern procedure in one of the most reputable
memorials of White Magic which is now extant . The evoca-
tion of .Lucifer and Astaroth, whatever the pretext, must be
THE TRIANGLE OF SOLOMON
the first step towards Satanism ; but here we have Satanism
undiluted, plus all the mysteries of the impure Venus. To
dismiss, therefore, the definition which no longer perplexes, let
us establish that the distinctipn between White and Black Magic
is the distinction between the Lemegeton and the Grimoire of
Honorius,-in other words, between cipher and zero.
§ 2. Concerning the Rite of Conjuration, from the Lemegeton
In conimunicating with the seventy-two spirits, the age of
the Moon should be observed, for it is affirmed on the authority
of Solomon that all days are profitable save the second, fourth,
sixth, ninth, tenth, twelfth or fourteenth of that luminary .
220The Mysteries of Go&ic Theurgy
The seals must be made of metals ; those of the chief kings
should be of-gold ;, marquises, of. silver ; dukes, of copper
prelates, of tin or silver ; knights, of lead ; presidents, of fixed
quicksilver ;' and earls, of silver and copper in equal parts.
The entire, cohort is go4erned by AivsexirloN, King of the
East ; CORSON, King of the West ; ZiMiNAR, King of the
North ; and GAAP, King, of the South. These may be bound
from 9 A.M. till noon, but, except on occasions of great import-
ance, should not be invoked themselves, as they act commonly
by their inferiors. Marquises may be bound from 3 to 9 P.Md
and from sunset to sunrise ; dukes from sunrise till noon, in
1.Numerous experiments of the alchemists are concerned with congealing and fixing quick-
silver, but there areWed"cabalistic" processes by which this substance was prepared expressly
for the construction of talismans, and these must not be confused withthe more sober-if not
more successful-recipes-of Hermetic Art. On this point see Los Secretsdu Petit Albert,Lyons
edition, 1775, pp. 63-65.
221The Book of Ceremonial Magic
clear weather ; prelates in any hour of the day ; knights only
from dawn till sunrise, or from 4 P.M. till sunset ; presidents in
any daylight hour up to the evening twilight ; counts and earls
in any hour of the day, but it must be in the woods and forests,.
or in a place that is' free from noise and far' from the resort of
THE PENTAGRAM OF SOLOMON
men. The ceremonial circle must be drawn towards that side
to which the spirit who is . to be called is attributed.' The
triangle into 'which Solomon summoned the rebellious demons
must be made two feet outside this circle and three feet over
it. The double seal and pentagram of Solomon must be drawn
on a parchment of calf-skin, or otherwise on gold or silver,
1 The chief consecrations of the circle are summarised by Francis Barrett in The Keywto
Ceremmial Magic as follows : Therefore when you would consecrate any place or circle, you
should take the Prayer of Solomon used in the dedication and consecration of the Temple ;
you must likewise bless the place by sprinkling with holy water and with suffumigations, and,
commemorate in the benediction holy mysteries, sucb,as these : the sanctification of the throne
of God, of Mount Sinai, of, the Tabernacle of the Covenant, of the Holy of Holies . . . . And
by invocating all Divine Names which are significant to this,
222dow
a
/
ire
J1
il
a
A"
PLATE VIII
THE MAGICAL CIRCLEThe Mysteries of Goetic Theurgy
and should be worn upon the white vestment of the operator,
together with the seal of the spirit, which must be exhibited
on his appearance-to compel obedience and assumption of
the human form. In addition to these characters, the secret
seal of Solomon must be drawn with the blood of a black cock
that has never engendered, on virgin parchment, the operator
himself being clean within and without, having abstained from
sexual intercourse Jor the space of one month and having
MAGICAL SWORDS AND WAND
obtained pardon for his sins by means of fasting and prayer.'
It is to be composed on a Tuesday or Saturday at midnight,
with the Moon increasing in Virgo, and with burning of per-
fumes of aloes, resin, cedar and alum.
The.-other,directions correspond broadly to those prescribed
in the :second chapter. There is the rod or sceptre ; the
sword.;_the mitre or cap a long robe of white linen ; a girdle
of lion's skin, three inches wide and inscribed with the names
which appear in the outer circle of practice ; material for the
I 1 do not think that an intentional profanation of the sacraments and holy offices of the
Church was here intended. This would be ascribing a depth to the motive of the Grimoires
which they never possessed.
22:5 PThe Book of Ceremonial Magic
fumigations ; oil to anoint the temples and eyes ; and clean
water for the 'ablution. The Prayer at Lustration is simply
the versicle of David :-Than shalt- purge me with hyssop,
THE, SECRET SEAL OF SOLOMON- ; .
0 Lord, and I shall be cleansed; Thou shalt wash me and I
shall be made whiter than -snow-,
PRAYER A T VESTING
By the figurative mystery of this holy vestment, I will clothe
me with the armour of salvation in .the strength of the Most
High, ANCOR, AMICAR, AMIDES, THEODONIAS, ANITOR, that so
the end which I desire may be effected, 0 ADONAI, through Thy
strength, to Whom -be praise and glory for ever and ever.'
11 VARIANT: Amor, Arnacor, Amides, Theodonias, Anitor ; by the merits of the angels,
O. Lord, I will put on the garment of salvation, that this which I desire I- may bring to effect,
through Thee, the Most Holy Adonai, Whose Kingdom endureth for ever and ever. `Amen.
226The Mysteries of Goetic Theurgy,
Prayers should also be- offered in harmony with the
intention of the operator, before pronouncing the forms of
evocation, as follows .--
FIRST CONJUR,4 TION
I invoke and conjure thee, 0 Spirit N., and, fortijfed with
the power of the Su,6reme Majesty, I strongly command thee by
BARALAMENSIS, BALDACHIEN-
SIS, PAUMACHIE, APOLORESEDES
and the most potent princes
GENIO, LIACHIDE, Ministers
of the Tartarean Seat, chief
princes of the seat of APOLOGIA
in the ninth region ; I exorcise
and command thee, 0 Spirit
N., by Him Who spake and it
was done, by the Most, Holy
and glorious Names ADONAI,
EL, ELOHIMM ELOHE, ZEBAOTH,
THE RING OF THE EXORCIST
ELION, ESCHERCE, JAH, TETRA-
GRAMMATON, SADAI : do thou forthwith appear and shew thyself
unto; me, here before this circle, ° in a fair and human shape,
without any deformity or horror; do thou come forthwith,
from" whatever part of the world, and make rational answers
to my questions'; come presently, come visiby, come affably,
manifest' that which I desire, being conjured by the Name
of the Eternal, Living and True God, HELIOREM ; I conjure
thee also by the particular and true Name. of thy God to
whom thou owest'thin- obedience; by the name of the King
who rules over thee, do thou come without tarrying ; come, fufl
my desires ; persist unto the end, according to_ mine intentions .
22,7The Book of Ceremonial Magic
I conjure thee -by Him to Whom all creaturee are obedient, by
this inefable Name, TETRAGRAMMATON JEHOVAH, by which the
elements are overthrown, the air is shaken, the sea turns back,
the fire is generated, the earth moves and all the hosts of
things celestial, of things terrestrial, of things infernal, do
tremble and are confounded together; speak unto me visibly
and afably in a clear, intelligible voice, free from ambiguity.
Come therefore in the name ADONAI ZEBAOTH ; come, why dust
thou tarry t ADONAI SADAY, King of kings, commands thee.
This being repeated frequently, if the spirit do not yet
appear, say as follows
SECOND :CONJURATION
invoke, conjure find command thee, 0 Sfrirzt-N., to' wear
and skew thyself visibly before this circle, in fair and comely
shape, without deformity or guile, by the Name of ON.4 by the
Name Y and V, which Adam heard and spake; by the Name
of JOTH, which Jacob learned from the Angel on the night of
his wrestling and was delivered from the hands of his brother
Esau; by the Name of 'God AGLA, which Lot heard and was
saved with his family by the Name ANEHEXETON, which Aaron
spake and was made wise; by the Name SCHEMES- AMATHIA,
which Joshua invoked and the Sun stayed upon his course ; by
the Name- EMMANUEL, which the three children, Shadrach,
Meshach and Abednego, chanted in the midst of the fiery
furnace, and they were delivered; by the Name ALPHA and
OMEGA, which Daniel uttered, and destroyed Bel and the
Dragon by the Name ZEBAOTH, which Moses named, and all
the rivers and waters in the land of Egypt brought forth frogs,
which ascended into the houses of the Egyptians, destroying all
228t
The Mysteries of Goetic Theurgy
things; by the- Name ESCERCHIE ARISTON, which also Moses
named, and the rivers and, waters in the land of Egypt were
turned into blood; by the Name ELION, on which Moses called,
and there fell a great hail, such as never was seen since the
.the
creation of the world; by Name An0NAI, which Moses
named, and there came up locusts over all the land of Egypt
and devoured what the hailrhad left;, by the Name HAGios, by
the Seal of ADONAI, by those others, which are JETROS, ATHE
NOROS, PARACLETUS ; by the three Holy and Secret Names,
AGLA, ON, TETRAGRAMMATON ; by the dreadful Day ofJudg-
ment; by the changing Sea of Glass which is before the face off
the Divine Majesty, mighty and powerful ; by the four -beasts
.before the Throne, having eyes before and behind ; by the fire
11
which is about the Throne, by the Holy Angels of Heaven,. by
theNighty Wisdom of God; by the Seal ofBASDATHEA, by this
Name PRIMEMATUM, which Moses named, and the earth opened
and swallowed Corah, Pathan and Abiram do. thou make
faithful answers unto all my demands, and fierform all my
desires, so far as thin office shall ftermit. Come therefore
peaceably and afably; come visibly and without delay ; mani-
fest that which I desire ; speak with a clear and intelligible
voice, that I may understand thee.
If he come not at the rehearsing of ,these Conjurations, as
without doubt he wilt, proceed as follows, it being a Con-
straint :-
THIRD CONJUR4 TION
I conjure thee, 0 Spirit N., by all the most glorious and
efficacious Names of the Great. and Incomparable Lord the God
ofHosts, come quickly and without delay, from whatsoever part
229The Book of Ceremonial Magic
of the world thou,art in; make rational answers to my,de-
mands; come visibly, speak ofably, speak intelligibly to my
understanding. I conjure and constrain thee, 0 Spirit N., by
all the aforesaid Names, as also by those seven other Names
wherewith Solomon bound thee and thy fellows in the brazen
vessel, to wit, ADONAI, PRERAI, TETRAGRAMMATON, ANEXHEXR
TON, INESSENSATOAL, PATHUMATON and ITEMON ; do thou mani-
fest before this circle, fu fl my will in all things that may
seem good to me. Be disobedient, refuse to come, and by the
power of the Supreme Being, the everlasting Lord, that God
Who created thee and me, the whole world, with alt contained -
therein, in the space of six days ; by EYE, by SARAY, by the Virtue
of
of the Name PRIMEMATUM, which commands the whole host
Heaven; be disobedient, and behold I will curse and deprive
thee of thine office,, thy joy and thy place ; I will bind thee in
the deptks ofthe bottomless pit, there to remain until the Day
of the Last Judgment. I willchain thee in the Lake ofEternal
Fire, in the Lake of Fire and Brimstone, unless thou come
quick y, appearing before this circle, to do my- will. Come,
therefore, in the Holy Names ADONAI, ZEBAOTH, AMI0RAM ;
come, ADONAI commands thee.
Should he still fail to appear, you may be sure that he has
been sent by his King to some other place. Invoke, therefore,
the King to despatch his servant as follows :-
IN POCATION OF THE KING
0 thou great and powerful King AMAYMON, who rulest by
the power of the Supreme God, EL, over all Spirits, superior
and inferior, but especially over the Infernal Order in the
Dominion of the East, I invoke and command thee by the
230 -The Mysteries , of Goetic Theurgy
particular and true Name.of Gad, by the God Whom thou lost
worship, by the Seal of thy creation, by the most mighty and
powerful Name of God, JEHOVAH, TETRAGRAMMATON, Who cast
thee out of Heaven with the rest ofthe .lnfer nal Spirits; by all
the other potent and great Names of God, Creator of Heaven,
Earth and Hell, of all contained therein; by their powers and
virtues; by the Name PRIMEMATUM, which commands the whole
host of Heaven. Do thou force and compel the Spirit N. here
before this circle, in a fair and comely shape, _without injury
to myself or to any creature, that he may give me- true and
faithful answer, so that I may accomplish my desired end,
whatsoever it be, provided that it is proper to his office, by the
flower of God, EL, Who hath created and loth dispose of all
things, celestial aerial, terrestrial and infernal.
Having twice or thrice invoked the King in this manner,
again conjure the spirit, using the previous forms, and rehears-
ing them several times, whereupon he will come assuredly.
Yet should he fail, be convinced that he is bound with chains
in hell, and is not in the custody of his King. To set him
free it is necessary to recite
THE .CHAIN CURSE
0 thou wicked and disobedient N., because thou hast not
_Obeyed or regarded the words which I have rehearsed, the
glorious and incomprehensible Names of the true God, Maker
of all things in the world, now I, by the power of these Names,
which no creature can resist, do curse thee into- the depths of
the Bottomless Pit, to remain until the Day of Doom, in the
Hell of unquenchable fire and brimstone, unless thou shah
forthwith appear in this triangle, before this circle, to do my
231The Book of Ceremonial Magic
will. Come, therefore, quickly and peaceably, by the Names
ADONAI, ZEI;AOTH, ADONAI, AMIORAM. Come, come, ADONAI,
King of Kings, commands thee.
Having read so far, if he come not, write his seal on
parchment ; put it in a black box, with brimstone, assafeetida
and other stinking perfumes ; bind the said box with- iron
wire, hang it on the point of your sword, hold it over the
fire of charcoal, which shall have been placed towards that
quarter whence the spirit will come, and say first unto ' the
Fire :-I conjure thee, 0 Fire, by Him Who made thee, and all
other creatures in the world, to torment, burn, and consume this
Spirit N. evf.rlastingly.
TO THE SPIRIT
Because thou art disobedient, and obeyst not my command-
ments nor the precepts of the Lord thy God, now I, who am
the servant of the Most High and Imperial Lord God of Hosts,
JEHOVAH, having His celestial power and permission, for this
thine averseness and contempt, thy great disobedience and re-
bellion, will excommunicate thee, will destroy thy name and seal,
which I have in this box, will lzern them with unquenchable fire
and bury them in upending oblivion, unless thou comest immedi
ately, visibly and affably, here before this circle, within this
triangle, assuming a fair and comely form, without doing harm
unto myself or any creature whatsoever, -but giving reasonable
answer to nay requests andperforming my desire in all things.
Ifhe appear not at this point, say as follows :-
Thou art still pernicious and disobedient, willing, not to
appear and inform me upon that which I desire to know ; now
therefore, in the Name and by the Power and dignity of the
232The Mysteries -of Goetic Theurgy
Omnipotent and Immortal Lord God ofHosts, JEHOVAH TETRA-
GRAMMATON, sole Creator,of Heaven, Earth and Hell, with all
contained therein, the marvellous Disposer of all things visible
and invisible, I do hereby curse and deft rive thee of all thin
office, power andplace; I bind thee in the de ith ofthe Bottom-
less-Pit, there to remain unto the Day ofJudgment, in the Lake
of Fire andBrimstone, preparedfor the rebellious Spirits. May
all the Company ofHeaven curse thee may the Sun, the Moon,
the Stars, the Light of the Hosts ofHeaven, curse thee into fire
unquenchable, into torments unspeakable ; and even as thy name
and seal are bound up in this box, to be choked with su fthureous
and stinking, substances ,and to burn in this material fare, so, in
the Name ofJEHOVAH, and by the power and dignity of the three
Names, TETRAGRAMMATON, ANEXHEXETON, PRIMEMATUM, may
all these drive thee, 0 thou disobedient Spirit N., into the Lake
of Fire, prepared for the damned and accursed Spirits, there to
remain until the Day ofDoom, remembered no more before the
face of that God Who shall come to judge the quick and the
dead, with the whole world, by fare.
Set the box ; in the flame, whereupon he will appear ; when
he comes, quench the fire, make sweet perfumes, give him
good entertainment, shewing him the pentacle on . the hem
of your, vestment covered with, a linen cloth, and saying -
Behold thy confusion, if thou be disobedient. Behold the Pen-
tacleofSolomon which I have brought into thy presence. Behold
the person- of the Exorcist, who is called OcTINIMOES, in the
midst of the Exorcism, armed by God and fearless, potently
invoking and calling. Make, therefore, reasonable answers to
my demands ; be obedient to me, thy Master, in the Name of
the Lord BATHAL, rushing upon ABRAC, ABEOR, coming upon
BEROR.
233The Book of Ceremonial Magic
He will become obedient and bid you ask what you will,
for he is made subject by God to your purpose. When he
shews himself humble and meek, say :-Welcome,- Spirit (or,
most noble-King), welcome art thou unto me; I have called thee
through Him Who created Heaven, Earth and Hell, with all
contained therein, and thou bast obeyed, also by the like : power.
I bind thee to remain a. ably and visibly before 'this circle,
within this triangle, so long as I need thee, to depart not without
my license, till thou hast truly-and faithfully fu filled all that
I shall require.
THE LICENSE TO DEPART
OSpirit N., because thou hast diligent y answered my
demands, I do hereby license thee to depart,, without injury to
manor beast. Depart, I say, and be thou willing and ready to
come, whensoever duly exorcised and conjured by :the Sacred
Rites of Magic.: I conjure' thee to withdraw peaceably and
quietly, and may the peace of God continue for ever between
me and thee. Amen.
Go not out of the circle till he be gone, but make prayers to
God for the great blessing He has bestowed upon you by thus
granting your desires and delivering you from the malice of
the enemy.
For these verbose and tiresome conjurations the Latin
version of Wierus substitutes one general form of citation,
in the Name of the Christian Trinity, which is not really an
especial anachronism, for the compiler of the Lemegeton was
acquainted at least with the books of the New Testament.
This is proved by the references in the Second Conjuration
234The Mysteries of Goetie Theurgy
to the Living Creatures of the Apocalypse, and it leaves the
attribution to Solomon in precisely that 'state which our respect
for a prince in Israel would naturally desire. No doubt,
however, the English editor of The Key Major of Magic would
see no reason to question the attribution and would explain
the anachronism very simply as a late interpolation .
HELL MOUTH AND THE DEVIL CHAINED.
From Cwdmon.
235CHAPTER V
Concerning the opperterp of the sanctum / Wgnum, or
the Oobernment of ebfi sptrito ; being the Mitt
of Conjuration accorafng to the Orfmotfum ierum
HHE preparations of the operator prescribed by the
Grimorium V4rum are fully represented in the earlier
T chapters, but they may be summed here as follows .-
i . An austere fast of three days ; 2. Retreat or isolation from
human society ; 3. Abstinence from sexual intercourse ; 4.
The recitation of certain prayers and the performance of
certain ablutions 5. The composition of the required instru-
ments. He must further devote himself to the invocations,
lest memory fail' him at the moment set apart for the work,
and to insure mastery of the practice . He should also recite
the following prayer daily'-at Prime once, at Tierce twice, at
Sext three times, at Nones four times, at Vespers five times,
and six times before going to rest. It is explained that these
hours are planetary and unequal.' Prime is reckoned at the
rising of the sun, Tierce at three hours after, Sext at mid-day,
Nones at three in the afternoon and Vespers at sunset.
' This portion of the process offers some analogy with theKey o/Solomon, Book ii. C. 2.
o i.e., they are governed by the times of sunrise and sunset. Sext and Nones would not,
however, be variable.
236The Mystery of the Sanctunm Regnum.,
PRA YER1
ASTRACHIOS, ASACH, ASARCA, ABEDUMABAL, SILAT, ANA-
BOTAS, JESUBILIN, SCIGIN, GENEON, ,DoUOL, Lord God, Who
dd ellest above the heavens, Whose glance searchest the abyss,,•
.grant me, I pray Thee, the flower to conceive in my mind and
to
to execute that which I desire do, the end of which I would
attain by Thy help, 0 God Almighty, Who livest wand reignest
for ever and ever. Amen.
,These things being done, says the Grimoire, it remains only
to follow the invocations and to compose the characters, to
which end the operator shall proceed as-follows :--On the day
and in the hour of Mars, the Moon waxing, and . at the first
hour of the day, which begins automatically fifteen minutes
before the rising of the Sun, a piece of virgin parchment must
be prepared, containing all the characters and invocations of
the spirits on whom it is desired to call. On the day and in
the hour aforesaid, let the. operator bind the little finger of the
(left) hand, which is the finger of Mercury, with a thread
woven by a_ virgin, girl'; let him pierce that finger with the
lancet of the Art,, so as to draw blood, and form therewith
the character of Scirlin, from whom all other spirits depend,
since he is their messenger and can compel them to appear
despite themselves, because he has the power of the Emperor
to him deputed. His invocation, which must be written, is
as f:oll-ows
1This prayer is similar to that in the Key of Solomon, Book ii.C. 2,, with the, exceptionn of
the names, which are much mutilated in the Grimoire ;-these should read:-Herarhio, As",
Asacro, Bedrimulael,' Math, Araboxas, Ierahlem, Ideodoc, Archar#el Zophiel, Blautel, Barn,
eata;,Edonisl, Elohim, Emagro, Abragateh, Samoel, Geburahel, Coddata, Era, Ekhi, Acksah,
Ebmisha, Imachedel, Daniel, Dame, Elamos, zacchet, Bael, Segon, Gemon, Dames . But the
majority of these are unintelligible.
237The Book of Ceremonial Magic
THE INVOCATION OF SCIRLIN
HELON 4, TAUL 1, VARF1;1, PAN 131, HEON 4, HOMONO
e,
REUM CLEMIALH 4, SERUGEATH 1j1, AGLA 4, TETRAGRAM=
e, e.
MATON CASOLY
With the confusion so common in the Grimoires, the
character of Scirlin is not given, whence the operator who
followed the instructions of this Ritual must have had recourse
to one _ of the superior spirits . The instructions, however, are
not described ad clerum, and it is scarcely possible to extract
from them an intelligible method of procedure. The name and
surname of the operator must apparently be written below the
character of the spirit, following a prescribed manner, which is
also omitted ; the conjuration of the spirit must be added and
\ incense burnt in his honour,
CONJURATION TO LUCIFER
LUCIFER131, OUYAR 1, CHAMERON 131, ALISEON 1 4, MAN-
DOUSIN (31, PREMY 134, ORIET 1J4, NAYDRUS 4, ESMONY 4,
EPARINESONT 4, ESTIOT e, DuMossoN B, DANOCHAR 4,
CASMIEL HAYRAS ) 4, FABELLERONTHON )It, SODIRNO 1,
PEATHAM Come 131, LUCIFER I., AMEN.
CONJURATION FOR BEELZEBUTH
i
BEELZEBUTH 1J1, LUCIFER 1, MADILON 131, SOLYMO 'K1, SAROY
e, e,
THEU AMECLO SEGRAEL j, PRAREDUN 4, -ADRI/CA-
NOROM 131, MARTIRO I, TIMO 4, CAMERON 4, PHORSY 114,
e, e,
METOSITE114, PRUMOSY 14, DUMASO ELIVISA ALPHROIS
e,
FUBENTRONTY 131, Come, BEELZEBUTH i. AMEN.
238The Mystery of the Sanctum
Regnum
CONJURATION FOR ASTAROTH
ASTAROTH e, AI oR4, CAMESO I}I, VALUERITUF e, MARESO
13I, LODIR114, CADOMIR1B, ALUIEL4 4, CALNISO (, TELY 1B,
PLEORIM 14, VIORDYe, CUREVIORBAS e, CAMERON e, VESTU-
RIEL e, VULNAVII e, BENEZ e, MEUS CALMIRON e, NOARD I,
NISA CHENIBRANBO CALEVODIUM e, BRAzo i, TABRASOL e,
e,
Come ASTAROTH, & AMEN.
Having repeated seven times the conjuration addressed to
one of these superior spirits, the same will forthwith manifest
to perform whatsoever shall ,be desired. NOTE.-Such con-
juration must have been written on virgin paper or parchment
before -invoking the spirits. These, having been satisfied, may.
be dismissed by using the following
DISCHARGE
Go in Peace unto your es; may Peace be with you, and
be ye ready to come whexsoever I shall call upon you, In
the Name of the Father 'and' of the Son iII and of the Holy
Ghost & .Amen.
CONJURATION: FOR INFERIOR SPIRITS
0 SURMY e, DELMUSAN114, ATALSLOYMF;l, CHARUSIHOA 14,
e, e,
MELANY LIAMINTHO 14, COLEHON Ifs, PARON 1 4, MADOIN
MERLOY e, BULERATOR 4, DONMEO hzl, HONE e, PELOYM 4,
IBASIL 4, MEON e, ALYMDRICTELS e, PERSON e, CRISOLSAY
Iji, LEMON SEFLE NIDAR HORIEL PEUNT e, HALMON 1;I,
ASOPHIELIC4, ILNOSTREON rII, BANIEL4, VERMIASkzl, ESLEVOR
e, NOELMA e, DORSAMOT j4, LHAVALA'e, OMOT e, FRANGAM
ji, BELDOR 4, DRAGIN ffl, Come 4.
239The Book of Ceremonial Magic
The name of the required spirit must here be added on
the parchment, when he will duly appear-the ordinary acci-
dents excepted-and will grant what is desired of him-' that
is to say, if it so. happen-after which he may be . dismissed
by the previous Discharge.
The characters should be burnt in each case, as they avail
once only.
ANOTHER CONJURATION
I conjure thee, N., by the great living God, the. Sovereign
Creator of all things, to appear under a comely human form,
without noise and without terror, to answer truly unto all
questions that I shall ask thee. Hereunto I conjure thee by
the virtue of these Holy and Sacred Names. '
THE IMP STATUE. LINCOLN.
240CHAPTER VI
to
9 potetfez of 3jnfernai' Qtocatfon accotbing
to tie otanb oriinoire
§ i. The Rite of Lucifuge
HE Grand Grimoire divides with the- Grimoire of
T
Honorius the darksome honour of an intelligible and
unmutilated Ritual of Black Magic. Each after its own
kind i's indeed an exceedingly curious. work. In the first is
contained what is probably the only printed method of making
pacts ; the second is remarkable, firstly, on account of its pre-
tended origin and the elaboration with which it is set forth,
secondly, for the ecclesiastical complexion of its process, which
can scarcely have failed to impose upon some credulous, and
priestly sorcerers ° of the illiterate kind, and assuming their
willingness to disgrace the vows of ordination. Both require,
in a study of the present kind, to be printed almost in extenso,
and, setting aside their preliminary portions, already adequately
dealt with, they are given practically verbatim in the chapters
which here follow.
It will be remembered that the operator, or Karcist, as he
is termed in the Grand Grimoire, is recommended continence,
fasting and similar privations for an entire quarter of . the moon,
such quarter coinciding with that of the luminary. On the
morning which succeeds the first night of the quarter, he must
repair to a druggist's, and purchase a blood-stone, called Ematille
241 QThe Book of\ Ceremonial Magic
(id est Hamatites), which must be carried continually about him
for fear of accident, and in expectation that the spirit whom it is
proposed to compel and bind will henceforth do all in his power
to overwhelm the operator with terror, so as to incite him to
abandon the enterprise, hoping in this manner to-escape from
the wiles which are beginning to be woven about him .
The, next operation is the purchase of a virgin kid, which
must be decapitated on the third day of the moon. Previously
to the sacrifice, a garland of vervain must be wound about the
neck of the animal, immediately below the head, and secured by
means of a green ribbon. The sacrifice must be offered on the
scene of the coming evocation, a forlorn and isolated spot-free
from all interruption. There, with the right arm, bared to the
shoulder, having armed himself with a blade of fine steel, and
having kindled a fire of white wood, the Karcist shall recite the
following words in a hopeful and animated manner-:--
INITIAL OFFERING
I immolate this victim to Thee, 0 grand ADONAY, ELOIM,
ARIEL and JEHOVAM, Mike honour, glory and power of Thy
Name, which is superior to all Spirits. 0 grand ADONAY !
Vouchsafe to receive it as an acceptable offering. Amen.
Here he must cut the throat of the kid, skin it, set the body
on the fire and reduce it to ashes, which must be collected and
cast towards the rising of the sun, at the same time repeating
the following words :-It is to the honour, glory and dominion
of Thy Name, 0 grand ADONAY, ELOIM, ARIEL, JEHOVAM, that
I spill the blood of this victim ! Vouchsafe, 0 Thou grand
ADONAY, to receive its ashes as an acceptable sacrifice .
While the victim is being consumed by the flames, the
242The . Mysteries of Infernal Evocation
operator shall rejoice in the honour and glory of the grand
ADONAY, ELOIM, ARIEL and JEHOVAM, taking care to preserve
-the skin of the virgin kid to form the round or grand Kaba-
listic circle, in which, he must himself stand on the day of the
supreme enterprise.
The sacrifice of the victim is followed by the selection and
composition of the Blasting Rod, of which a description has
been given. From the purpose for which it is intended, and
from the silence of the. Grimoire, it may be inferred that the
preparation of the goatskin is' exceedingly simple and does not
involve the removal-of the hair;
When the night of action,' has arrived, the operator shall
gather up his rod, goatskin, the stone called Ematille, and
shall further provide himself with two vervain crowns, two
candlesticks and -two candles of virgin wax, made by a virgin
girl and duly blessed. Let him take also a new steel and two
new flints, with sufficient tinder to kindle a fire; likewise, half
a_bottle of brandy, some blessed incense and camphor, and four
nails from the coffin of a dead child. All these must be carried
to the place chosen for the great work, where everything herein-
after-laid down must be scrupulously performed and the dread
Kabalistic circle must be described in an accurate manner.
Lastly, it must be carefully borne in mind that there should be
either one or three taking part in the ceremony, the Karcist
included, who is the person appointed to address the spirit,
holding the Destroying -Rod in his hand. The evoking pro-
cess may be given in the--actual words of the Grimoire.
CONCERNING A TRUE REPRESENTATION OF THE GRAND
KABALISTIC CIRCLE
You must begin by forming a-circle with strips of kid's skin,
fastened to the ground, by means of your four nails. Then with
243The Book of Ceremonial Magic
the stone called' Ematille you must trace the triangle within
the circle, beginning at the eastern point. A large A, a small
E, a Small A, and a small j, must be drawn in like manner, as
also the sacred name of Jesus between two crosses. By this
means the spirits will have no power to harm you from behind
The Karcist and his assistants may then fearlessly proceed to
f
THE GRAND KABALISTIC CIRCLE
their places within the triangle, and, regardless of any noises,
may set the two candlesticks and the two vervain' crowns on
the right and left sides of the triangle within the circle. This
being done, the two candles may be lighted, taking care that
I
there is a new brazier in front of the Karcist, piled with newly
consecrated charcoal. This must be kindled by the Karcist
casting a small quantity of the brandy therein and a part of
the camphor, the rest being reserved to feed the fire periodically,
-in proportion to the length of the business. Having'punctually
performed all that is mentioned above, the chief operator may
244The Mysteries of Infernal Evocation
repeat the following prayer :-I present Thee, 0 great ADONAY,
this incense as the purest I can obtain ; in like manner, I
present Thee this charcoal prepared from the most ethereal
of woods. I ofer them, 0 grand and omnipotent ADONAY,
ELOIM, ARIEL and JEHOVAM, with my whole soul and my
whole heart. Vouchsafe, 0 great ADONAY, to receive them as
an acceptable holocaust. Amen.
You should also be careful, says the Grimoire, to have no
alloyed metal about your person, except a gold or silver coin
wrapped in paper, which you must fling to the spirit when he
appears outside the circle, so as to prevent him from harming
you. While he is picking up the coin, begin promptly the
following prayer, fortifying yourself with courage, energy and
prudence. Be, also, especially careful that the Karcist is the
silence,
sole speaker ; the assistants must preserve a determined
even if they are questioned or menaced by the spirit.
245FIRST PRAYER
0 great and living God, subsisting in one and the same
person, the Father, the Son and the Holy Ghost ; I adore Thee
with the deepest veneration, and I submit with the liveliest con-
fidence to Thy holy and sufficient protection . I believe with the
most sincere faith that Thou art my Creator, my Benefactor, my
Preserver and my Lord, and I testify to Thy sovereign Majesty
that my sole desire iss to belong to Thee through the whole of
eternity. So be it. Amen.
SECOND PRAYER
0 great and living God, Who hast created man to enjoy
felicity in this life, Who hast adapted all things for his necessities,
and didst declare that everything should be made subject to his
will, be favourable to this my design, and permit not the rebellious
spirits to be in possession ofthose treasures which were formed
by Thine own hands for, our temporal requirements . Grant
me, 0 great God, the power to dispose of them by the potent
and- terrific name's in Thy Clavicle : ADONAY, ELOIM, ARIEL,
JEHOVAM, TAGLA, MATHON, be ye. propitious unto- me. So be
it. Amen.
OFFERTORY
I offer Thee this incense as the purest which I have been
able to obtain, 0 sublime ADONAY, ELOIM, ARIEL and JEHOVAM ;
vouchsafe to receive it as an acceptable holocaust . Incline to
me in Thy power, and enable me to succeed in this great enter-
prise. So be it. Amen.
246The Mysteries of Infernal Evocation
FIRST CONJURATION
Addressed to the Emperor Lucifer
Emperor Lucifer, Master and Prince of Rebellious Spirits,
I adjure thee to leave thine abode, in whatsoever quarter of the
world it may be situated, and come hither to communicate with
me. - I command and I conjure thee in the Name of the Mighty
living God, Father, Son and Holy Ghost, to appear without
noise and -without any evil smell, to respond in a clear and
intelligible voice, point by point, to all that I shall ask thee,
failing which, thou shalt be most surely compelled to obedience
by-the power of the divine ADONAY, ELOIM, ARIEL, JEHOVAM,
TAGLA, MATHON, and, by the whole hierarchy of superior in-
telligences, who shall constrain thee against thy will. Venitc,
Ven tC ! Submiritillor Lucifuge, or eternal torment shall over-
whelm thee, by the great power ofthis Blasting Rod. In subito.
SECOND CONJURATION
I command and I adjure thee, Emperor Lucifer, as the
representative of the mighty living God, and by the power of
Emanuel, His only Son, Who is thy master and mine, and by the
virtue of His precious blood, which He shed to redeem man-
kindfrom thy chains, I command thee to quit thine abode, where-
soever it may be, swearing that I will give thee one quarter of an
hour alone, if thou dost not straightway come hither and com-
municate with me _in an audible and intelligible voice, or, if thy
personal presence be impossible, despatch me thy Messenger
Astarc t in a human form, without either noise or evil smell,
failing which I will smite thee and thy whole race with the terrible
Blasting Rod into the depth ofthe bottomless abysses, and that by
the power of those great words in the Clavicle-By ADONAY,
247The Book. of Ceremonial Magic
ELOIM, ARIEL, JEHOVAM, TAGLA, MATHON, ALMOUZIN, ARIOS,
PITHONA, MAGOTS, SYLPHIE, TABOTS, SALAMANDRE, GNOMUS,
TERM, Cu LIS, GODENS, AQUA. In subito.
Notice.-Before uttering the third Conjuration, should the
spirit refuse to comply, read what follows in the Clavicle, and
smite all the spirits by plunging both the forked extremities of
your rod into the flames. Be not alarmed in so doing at the
frightful howls which you may hear, for at this extreme moment
all the spirits will manifest. Then, before reading the Clavicle,
and in the midst of the commotion, recite the third Conjuration.
THIRD CONJURATION
I adjure thee, Emperor Lucifer, as the agent of the strong
living God, of His beloved Son and of the Holy Ghost, and by
the Power of the Great ADONAY, ELOIM, ARIEL=and JEHOVAM,
to appear instantly, or to send thy Messenger Astarot, forcing
thee to forsake thy hiding-place, wheresoever it may be, and
warning thee that if thou dolt not manifest this moment, I will
straightway, smite thee and all thy race with the Blasting Rod
of the great ADONAY, ELOIM, ARIEL and JEHOVAM, &.c.
At this point, should the spirit still fail to appear, plunge
the two,ends of your rod a second time into the flames, and
recite the following potent words from the grand Clavicle of
olomon :-
GRAND CONJURATION
Extracted from the Veritable Clavicle
I adjure thee, 0 Spirit! by the power of the grand ADONAY,
to appear instanter, and by ELOIM, by ARIEL, by JEHOVAM, by
AQUA, TAGLA, MATHON, OARIOS, ALMOAZIN, ARIOS, MEMBROT,
248The Mysteries of Infernal Evocation
VARIOS, PITHONA, MAJODS, SULPHIE, GABOTS, SALAMANDRA,
TABOTS, GINGUA, JANNA, ETITNAMUS, ZARIATNATMIX, &C.
A. E. A. J. A. T. M. 0. A. A. M. V. P. M. S. C. S. J. C. G. A.
J. F. Z. &c.
LUCIFUGE ROFOCALE
After a second repetition of these sublime and powerful
words, you may be sure-as the deposition affirms-that the
spirit will respond after the ensuing manner.
Of the Manifestation of the Spirit
Lo, I am here ! What dost thou seek of me? Why dost
thou disturb my repose? Smite me no more with that dread
rod ! LUCIFUGE ROFOCALE
249Reply to the Spirit
Hadst thou appeared when I first invoked - thee, I had b y
no means smitten thee; remember, if the request which I make
thee be refused, I- am determined to torment thee eternally .
SOLOMON
The Spirit's Answer
Torment me no further. Say, rather, what thou dolt require
at my hands. LUCIFUG4 ROFOCALE
The Requisition
I rewire that thou shalt communicate two several times on
each night ofthe week, either with myself or with those who are
entrusted with my present Book, the which thou shalt approve
and sign; I permit thee the choice of those hours which may
suit thee, if thou approvest not those which I now enumerate .
To wit
On Monday at nine o'clock and at midnight .
On Tuesday at ten o'clock and at one in the morning.
On Wednesday at eleven o'clock and at two in the morning.
On Thursday at eight and ten o'clock.
On Friday at seven in the: evening and at midnight.
On Saturday at nine, in the evening and at eleven at night.
Further, I command thee to surrender me the nearest treasure,
and I promise thee as a reward the first piece, of gold or silver
which I touch with my-hands on the first day of every month.
Such is my demand. SOLOMON
The Spirit's Reply
I cannot comply with thy request on such terms, nor on any
250The Mysteries of Infernal Evocation
others, unless thou shalt give thyself over to me in fifty years,
to do with thy body and soul as I please.
LUCIFUGE ROFOCALE
Rejoinder to the Spirit
La, will I smite thee and thy whole race, by the might of
great Adonay, if, on the contrary, thou dost not comply wills
my request.
Notice.-Here plunge the points of the Blasting Rod into
the fire and repeat the Grand Conjuration of the Clavicle till
the spirit surrenders himself to your will.
Answer and Compliance of the Spirit
Smite me no further ; I pledge myself to do what thou de-
sirest two several times on every night of the week. To wit
On Monday at ten o'clock and at midnight.
On Tuesday at eleven o'clock and at one in the morning.
On Wednesday at midnight and at two in the morning .
On Thursday at eight and at eleven o'clock.
On Friday .at nine o'clock and at midnight.
On Saturday at ten o'clock and at one in the morning .
I also approve thy Book, and I give thee my true signature
on parchment, which thou shalt affix at its end, to make use
of at thy need. Further, I place myself at thy disposition, to
appear before thee at thy call when, being purifaed, and holding
the dreadful Blasting Rod, thou shalt open the Book, having de-
scribed the Kabalistic circle and pronounced the word Rofocale.
I promise thee to have friendly commerce with those who are
fortified by the possession of the said Book, where my true sig-
nature stands, 'provided that they invoke me according to rule,
on the first occasion that they require me;. I also engage to
251deliver thee the treasure which thou seekest, on condition that
thou keepest the secret for' ever inviolable, art charitable to the
poor and dost give me a gold or silver coin on the first day of
every month. If thou failest thou art mine everlastingly .
LUCIFUGE ROFOCALE
IMPRIMATUR
Reply to the Spirit
I agree to thy conditions.
SOLOMON
INVITATION OF THE SPIRIT
Follow me, and come lay thy hands on the treasure.
Thereupon the Karcist, armed with the Blasting Rod and
the stone called Ematille, shall issue from the circle at that
point where the door of mighty Adonay is figured, and shall
follow the spirit ; the assistants, however, shall not stir one step
from the circle, but shall remain firm and, immovable within
it, whatever reports they hear, whatever visions they behold .
The spirit shall then conduct the Karcist to the vicinity of
the treasure, when it may befall that the Karcist shall behold
the apparition of a large and fierce dog, with a collar as re-
splendent as the sun. This will be a Gnome, which he can
drive off by the point of his rod, when the apparition will make
off towards the treasure. The Karcist must follow, and, on
reaching the treasure, will be astonished to discover the person
who has hidden it, who also will endeavour to grapple with
him, but will be unable so much as to approach him. The
Karcist must be provided with a sheet of virgin parchment
inscribed with the grand conjuration of the Clavicle. This he
must cast upon the treasure, grasping one of its coins at the same
252The Mysteries of Infernal Evocation
moment as a pledge and a surety, and previously flinging down
a piece of his own money bitten by his own teeth, after which
he may retire, walking backwards and carrying away what he
can of the treasure. The rest cannot escape him after the
above precautions. He must, however, take heed not to turn
round', whatever noise he may hear, for at this critical moment
it will truly seen as if all the mountains in the world were being
precipitated upon him. He must for this cause be fortified
with special intrepidity, must take fright at nothing but keep
perfectly firm. So acting, he will be led back by the Spirit
to the entrance of the circle. Then shall the Karcist recite the
following discharge of the Spirit.
CONJURATION AND DISCHARGE OF THE SPIRIT
0 Prince Lucifer, I am, for the time, contented with thee .
I now leave thee in Peace, and permit thee to retire wheresoever
it may seem good to thee, so it be without noise and without
leaving any evil smell behind thee . Be mindful, however, of
our engagement, for shouldst thou fail in it, even for a moment,
be assured that I shall eternally smite thee with_ the Blasting
Rod of the great ADONAY, ELOIM, ARIEL and JEHOVAM. Amen,
ACT OF THANKSGIVING
0 Omnipotent God, Who hast created all things for the service
and convenience of men, we return Thee most humble thanks
for the benefits which, in Thy great bounty, Thou hast poured
out on us during this night of Thine inestimable favours, wherein
Thou hast granted us according to our desires. Now, 0 Al-
mighty God, have we realised all the scope of Thy great promises,
when Thou didst say to us Seek and ye shall find, knock and
253The Book of Ceremonial Magic
it shall be opened, unto you. And as Thou hast commanded
and warned us to succour the poor, we promise Thee, in the
Presence of the great ADONAY, ELOIM, ARIEL and JEHOVAM,
to be charitable and to pour out on them the beneficent beams .of
the Sun with which those four potent divinities have enriched
us. So be it. Amen.' VALE
§ 2. Concerning the Genuine Sanctum Regnum, or the True
Method of Making Pacts
There are two kinds of pacts, says the Grimorium Verum,
the" tacit and the manifest ; but know at the same time that
among the several kinds of spirits there are some which bind
and some which-do not bind, save only in a very light manner .
As to the first, they are those which require something person-
ally belonging to you whensoever a pact is agreed. Against
these you must be on your guard, because the guileful friend
becometh an open enemy.1 The Grimorium Verum does not,
1 Catholic theologians who have concerned themselves with the question of the pact have
so extended the sphere of its operation that it includes the mereprocess of communicating with
spirits. In his Theological Dictionary Bergier defines the pact as an express or tacit agree.
ment made with the demon in the hope of accomplishing things which transcend the powers of
Nature. It is express and formal when the operator himself invokes and demands the help of
the demon, whether that personage really appears in response, or the sorcerer believes that he
beholds him, that is to say, is hallucinated. It is also express and formal when the demon is
invoked by the mediation of some one supposed to be in relation with him ; in other words, the
consultation of a sorcerer is equivalent to a compact with Satan. The performance of any act
with the expectation of a result from the demon is another compact of this kind. The pact is
tacit or equivalent when an act is performed with a view to some effect which cannot naturally
follow, while the intervention of God is not to be expected. There remains only the fiend.
For. example, should any one cure a disease by uttering certain words, this could only take
place by the operation of the Infernal Spirit, because the words do not themselves possess the
required virtue, and God is not likely to infuse it. Hence' all theologians conclude that not only-
.01 every species of Magic, but every kind of superstition involves at least a tacit and equivalent
compact with the demon. St. Augustine and St. Thomas are said to have taken this view. It
is by precisely such judgments as these that the theology of the Middle Ages brought itself to
a by-word, and it is also for this reason that sorcery most flourished when such doctrines ruled,
because a power which condemns everything to the same penalty condemns nothing effectually,
and that which is over-judged is always vindicated in the eyes of the people.. We have come to
see that horse-stealing is not murder, and we no longer avenge it by the gallows; so also, with
due respect to the masters of Theology, the follies of a village maiden who believes in a Booth.
254The Mysteries of Infernal Evocation
however, entertain more largely the question of a compact with
Satan or his ministers, though it may perhaps be inferred from
s>
its pages that all commerce with evil spirits is founded on a
law of exchange,' They can •be bent to the intention of the
operator, but it is on the express understanding that they are
satisfied for their part, because, as we have seen, these kinds of
breatures give nothing for nothing.
With the author of the Grand Grimoire, the pact is a con-
cession to the poverty of the operator's resources. In Black
Magic, as in some other processes, the necessitous must be
ready to sacrifice, and the sorcerer who is insufficiently equipped
must pay a higher price in the end. The genuine Sanctum
Regnum of the Grand Clavicle, otherwise termed. the Pacta
Conventa D monum, is explained by the Grand Grimoire for
the information of those who are desirous to bind spirits, but
are devoid of the requisite resources for' composing- the Blasting
Rod and Kabalistic circle. Such persons, it 'is affirmed, will
never succeed in evoking spirits unless they perform, point
by point, all that is detailed hereinafter concerning the ;manner
of making pacts with any spirit whatsoever, whether the object
in view may 'be the possession of treasures concealed in the
earth, the enjoyment of women or girls, -and for obtaining any
desired favour at their hands, whether for the discovery of the
most hidden secrets in all Courts and Cabinets of the world,
whether for the -revelation of the most impenetrable mysteries,
whether for engaging a spirit to perform one's work in the
saying gipsy, and the trickeries of a quack-doctor who is absurd enough to take Abracadabra
seriously, are not the crime of Faust. But the learned Bishop of Hippo and the Angel of the
Schools produced-Goethe as their ultimate antithesis ; when the girl who draws lots for her
lover is given over to Satan, the,apotheosis of- Faust is certain. Behind the manifest exag-
gerations of such definitions there lies, however, a hidden pearl of truth,-which concerns the
temerity of opening the door to evil, and in this sense even the heedless act or the act of folly
carries all its consequences and all to which it may lead like an implicit within it,
I But Lucifer, in ordinary cases, is contented with a -cat, though it may be suggested that
it is held only as a kind of hostage.
255The Book of Ceremonial- Magic
night, whether to cause a fall of hail or a storm;in any appointed
place, whether' to open seals, to behold what is passing in
private houses and learn all the skill of the shepherds, whether
to obtain the Hand of Glory and discern all the qualities and
virtues of metals, minerals, and vegetables, of animals both pure
and impure, and " to perform things so astounding that_ no
person in existence can fail to be in a condition of utter , be-
wilderment on seeing that by means of a pact with certain
spirits one can discover the grandest secrets of Nature, -which
are hidden from the eyes of all other men."
It is to the Clavicle of the great King Solomon, says the
Grimoire, that we owe the discovery of the genuine method
of making pacts, which he also made use of himself for the
acquisition of his immense . riches, for the pleasure of such
.innumerable women and for the revelation of the most im-
penetrable arcana .of Nature, whereby every species of good
and evil may be accomplished.
With the highest potentates of Infernus, with Lucifer,
Beelzebuth and Astaroth, it does not seem possible to enter
into a binding compact. The sorcerer must be content with
some one among the six governors,' who will generally work
by their agents. An invariable covenant of the pact should
bargain for service by one of the three superiors among such
special subordinates.
Having determined to make a pact, continues the Grand
Grimoire, you must begin on the previous evening by cutting
with a new and unused knife a rod of wild hazel, which has
never borne fruit and shall be similar to the Blasting Rod, as
it has been previously described.
This, must be done precisely at the, moment when the sun
appears upon our horizon. The same being accomplished, arm
1 See c. iii. sec. i.
256The Mysteries of Infernal Evocation
yourself with the stone called Ematille and with two blessed
candles, and proceed to select a place for the coming operation
where you will be wholly undisturbed ; you may even make
the pact in some isolated room, or in some subterranean part
of an old ruinous castle, for the spirit has the power to trans-
port the treasure-or, presumably, one of its alternatives-to
'any required place.
This having been duly fulfilled, describe a triangle with the
stone called Ematille-which is exclusively needed, on the first
occasion of making a pact..
Then set the two blessed candles in a parallel position
on either side of the Triangle of Pacts, inscribing the Holy
Name of Jesus below, so that no spirits can injure you after
any manner. You may now take -up your position in the
middle of "the triangle, holding the mysterious rod, together
with the grand Conjuration of the Spirit, the Clavicle, the
written Requisition which you mean to make and the Dis-
charge of the Spirit.
Having exactly fulfilled what things soever have been above
described, begin by reciting the following Conjuration with
decision and hopefulness :-
GRAND CONJURATION OF SPIRITS WITH WHOM
IT IS SOUGHT TO MAKE A PACT
Taken from the Grand Clavicle
Emperor Lucifer, Master ofall the revolted Spirits, I entreat
thee to favour, me in the adjuration which I address to thy mighty
minister, LUCIFUGE ROFOCALE, being desirous to make a pact
with him. I beg thee also, 0 -Prince Beelzebuth, to protect me
in my undertaking. 0 Count Astar©t / be propitious to me,
and grant that to-night the great LUCIFUGE may-appear to me
257 RThe Book of Ceremonial Magic
under a human form, free from evil smell, and that he may
accord me, in virtue of the pact which I propose to enter into,
all the riches that I need. 0 grand LuCIFUGE, I pray thee to
quit thy dwelling, wheresoever it may be, and come hither to
speak with me ; otherwise will I compel thee by the power of the
strong living God, His beloved Son and the Holy Spirit. Obey
promptly, or thou shalt be eternally tormented by the power of
the potent words in the grand Clavicle of Solomon, wherewith
he was accustomed to compel the, rebellious spirits to receive
his compact. Then straightway appear, or I will persistently
torture thee by the virtue of these great words in the Clavicle.
AGLON, TETRAGRAM, VAYCHEON STIMULAMATON EZPHARES
RETRAGRAMMATON OLYARAM IRION ESYTION EXISTION ERYONA
ONERA ORASYM MOZM MESSIAS SOTER EMANUEL SABAOTH
ADONAY, to adoro, et to invoco. AMEN.
You may rest assured that the recitation of these potent
words will be followed- by the appearance of the spirit, who
will say :---
Manifestation of the Spirit
Lo, I am here/ What dost thou seek of me? Why dost
thou disturb my"*&pose ? Answer me.
LUCIFUGE ROFOCALE
Reply to the Spirit
It is my wish to make a pact with thee, so as to obtain wealth
at thy hands immediately, failing which I will torment thee by
the potent words of the Clavicle.
The Spirit's Reply
I cannot comply with thy request except thou dost give thy-
258PLATE IX
THE GOETIC CIRCLE OF PACTS.The Mysteries of Infernal Evocation
self over to me in twenty .years, to do with thy body and soul as
I please. LUCIFUGE ROFOCALE
Thereupon throw him your pact, which must be written
with your own hand on a sheet of virgin parchment ; it should
be worded as follows, and signed with your own blood . :--Zpro-
mise the grand LUCIFUGE to reward him, in twenty years' time
for all treasures that he may give me. In witness whereof I
have signed myself N.N.
Reply of the Spirit
I cannot grant thy request.
LUCIFUGE ROFOCALE
In order to enforce his obedience, again recite the Supreme
Appellation, with the terrible words of the Clavicle, till the
spirit reappears, and thus addresses you :-
Of the Spirit's Second Manifestation
Why dost thou torment me further ? Leave me to rest,, and
I will confer upon thee the nearest treasure, on condition that
thou dost set apart for me one coin- on the first Monday of each.
month, and dost not call me oftener than once a week, to wit,
between ten at night and two in the morning. Take up thy
pact ; I have signed it. Fail in thy promise, and thou shall be
mine at the end of twenty years.
LUCIFUGE ROFOCALE
Reply to the Spirit
I agree to thy request, subject to the delivery of the nearest
treasure which I can at once carry away.
Follow the spirit without fear, cast your pact upon the
hoard, touch -it with your rod, remove as much as you can,
return into the triangle, walking backwards, place the treasure
26!The Book of Ceremonial Magic
given
in front of you, and recite the Discharge of the Spirit, as
in the preceding Rite.
It will be seen from the wording of the compact that it
is designedly evasive and the final response of the supposed
spirit seems to recognise that it can obtain only by neglect on
the part of the sorcerer. But if there are Courts of judgment in
the nethermost world, the sorcerer might find a certain difficulty
in arguing such a case with the advocatus diaboli. Lucifer and
his deputies are accredited with an awkward skill in getting
possession of the defendant when the time of the pact expires.
There were apparently more binding contracts, and better ways
of over-riding them, for in the year 1678 the Abbe Eynatton
published a Manual of Exorcisms which contains the following
formal process for forcing the Demon to return any writing
which constitutes an agreement with him
EXORCISM
0 most merciful God, Whose power hath no limit, Whose
dominion is supreme' over all beings, so that nothing can pos-
sibly be estreated from Thy rule by apostasy ; behold, we have
sinned against Thee, we have provoked Thy most just wrath,
when we have failed to obey Thy commands, above all when,
forsaking Thy rule and Thy friendship, we have abjured Thee
and have consorted with 'the impious demons, ,nor yet contented
with Thy denial, have bound ourselves in writing,to those demons,
surrendering the document of our voluntary;obligation: against
Thee into their custody. But Thy mercies are without number,
0 Lord of loving-kindness, and it is Thine to spare and to
pardon ; look, therefore, with compassion upon this Thy creature,
who, having formerly denied Thee and given himself in writing
to the demons, but now, having returned to himself by the help
262The Mysteries of Infernal Evocation
of Thine infinite goodness, doth abhor his impiety, doth desire
to be restored unto Thee his true Lord, and to be received withh
contrite heart into Thy favour. We know, 0 Lord, that a con-
trite and humble heart Thou wilt not despise, nor can any writing
be an impediment in the way of Thy mercy ; we beseech Thee,
therefore, that, by the abundance of Thy clemency, not only may
the heinousness of this sin be blotted out with the Blood of Thy
Son our Lord Jesus Christ, but that the demon, by the word of
Thy power, may be compelled to restore the deed and obligation
and delivery, lest he glory in his tyranny and pretend to any
right over the man whom we pray to be delivered through Thy
Son from his bonds. Through the same Jesus Christ, Thy Son,
our Lord, &c.
The propitiation of offended Deity is followed by a citation
of the demon who-is required to disgorge his prey.
EXORCISM
I exorcise thee, 0 impious Satan, who, when thy power
has passed away, dost still pretend to impose a tyrant yoke
on man. I exorcise thee by Jesus Christ, Who came into this
world for the salvation of sinners ; I conjure thee to remove
thy yoke immediately from this creature, who, deceived by thy
wiles, formerly delivered himself unto thee . Abandoning thee
henceforth, he commits himself to the Divine mercy, seeking
His service unto Whom he alone is owing, Who also promises
the reward of eternal life to those who follow Him. I exorcise
thee by the precious Blood of Jesus Christ,, by which the deed
ofjudgment against us hath been blotted out, so that when Jesus
receiveth the sinner into His favour, thou shalt dare not to ad-
vance anything against him, and shalt not fail to restore the
deed by which this creature bound himself unto thee, the same
being now cancelled by the Blood ofJesus Christ.
263The Book of Ceremonial Magic
Hear, therefore, accursed Satan, who' art powerless over a
servant of God, when, encouraged by his true Lord, he turneth
unto another service ;_ in vain dost thou boast of this -deed ; I
command thee to restore it in the name of the Lord, as a proof
before the whole world that when God receiveth a sinner, thou
hast no longer any rule over his soul. I abjure thee, by Him
who expelled thee from thy stronghold, bereft thee of the arms
which thou didst trust in and distributed thy_ spoils. Return
therefore this deed, whereby this creature of God foolishly bound
himself to thy service ; -return it, I say, in His name by Whom
thou art overcome ; when thy power has come to nothing, presume
not longer to retain this useless document. By penitence already
hath this creature of God restored himself to his true Lord,
spurning thy yoke, hoping in the Divine mercy for defence
against thine assaults, and assisted by the Most Holy and
Glorious Virgin Mary, Mother of God, through whose inter-
cession he shall obtain from Jesus Christ, His Son, that which
he himself is not worthy to expect. Through the same Christ
our Lord.
Whether this process was supposed to insure the visible
and material return of the incriminating document, or, failing
this, was held to cancel it formally, does not certainly appear
and will matter little ; for what with the subtleties of the sor-
cerer and the assistance of the Church in the revocation of
such acts and deeds, there was little chance for Infernus,i
and the reluctance of Lucifuge Rofocale to enter into the
tricky contract is, on the whole, exceedingly intelligible.
i But contracts with Infernus could apparently be repudiated with even greater facility .
"If you are disposed to renounce the devil after having entered into a compact with him," says
the Vocabulaire Ixfernal, "spit three times on the ground, and he will have no further power
over you,"-in which case Black Magic' with all its grim theatricals is:the Art of exploiting lost
Angels with impunity. But the lost angel within the operator would not be exploited with
impunity like this at the end.
264CDe .1,
H E Grimoire of Honorius is perhaps the most frankly
T
diabolical of all the Rituals connected with Black
Magic, and yet, as we have already seen,, its enor-
mities have been much exaggerated. It suffers comparison,
for example, with the key of Solomon, and it is preferable to
the Lemegeton because it is less dis-
guised. Its most evident objections
are : i. Profanation of the mysteries
of religion. - 2. A bloody sacrifice,
characterised by details of a mon-
strous kind. A less manifest objec-
tion is the superstitious nature of
some of its, ordinances. It must be
confessed that such a charge seems
fantastic, having regard to the in-
numerable offices of vain observ-
ance with which I have been
dealing. But a vain observance,
it should be remembered, is not
necessarily superstitious. To as-
sume that a virtue is resident in MYSTIC FIGURES FROM THE TITLE-PAGE
OF THE"GRIMOIRE OF HONORIUS»
parchment prepared from the skin
of an animal which has not engendered, and that such virtue
is wanting in the skin of one which has reproduced its species,
265The Book of Ceremonial Magic
may have no foundation in fact, and may be eminently foolish,
but it is not a superstitious assumption. It has be n well
pointed out by tliphas Levi that the term superstition signi-
fies survival that is to say, it is the sign surviving the idea.
Thus, the Catholic doctrine of Transubstantiation, in its open
theological sense, _may or may not be true doctrine, but in
neither case can the worship of the consecrated elements be
superstitious, because such, worship draws directly from the idea
which has created the outward sign. If a time could be sup-
posed when the, Elements should continue to be worshipped
after the doctrine itself had passed away, that would be a
superstitious observance.' But the etymological conception of
superstition connects also with the idea of redundance. Thus,
a double consecration of the Eucharistic elements would be
a superstitious observance, as well as blasphemously absurd,
because the first consecration is effectual by the theological
hypothesis. But the repetition of the Angelical Salutation
in the devotion of the Holy Rosary is not superstitious, be-
cause the first recitation is not necessarily effectual by the
devotional hypothesis. So also the magical practice which
consists with the, magical hypothesis will not be superstitious,
though it may not consist with reason. The slaughter of a kid
with a view to securing a virgin parchment" is not a superstitious
but a precautionary or assumptive measure. The conversion of
this slaughter into a sacrifice is not superstitious, because it has
a purpose -which ,consists with the magical hypothesis, namely,
the increase of virtue by the consecration of the religious
motive. The importation into such sacrifice of ceremonies
which are not precautionary, and do not, by the hypothesis,
increase the virtue, are redundant and so far superstitious.
Such offices do not occur_ in the Grimoires, with the exception
of that of Honorius, in which Ritual they are further charac-
266The Method of Honorius
terised by brutal features. The slaughter of a black cock and
the extraction of the, eyes, tongue and heart, which must be
reduced into powder, and that powder subsequently sprinkled
on the lambskin, is a redundant and monstrous observance.
Were I therefore an occultist, with a belief in the `-efficacy of
magical rituals, I should say that the Grimoire of Honorius
must be avoided, but it should be unnecessary at the present
day to warn any one against practices to which no one is likely
to resort, which belong :to the foolish mysteries of old exploded
doctrines, and are interesting assuredly, but only as curiosities
of the past. It should be added that the profanations of the
mysteries of religion prescribed by the Grinnoire of Honordus
are not intentional profanations, and may be condoned to that
extent. Their purpose is not outrage, but increase of efficacy.
Having made these initial provisions, the substance of
this exceedingly curious Ritual may now be offered to the
student in the words,'of its writer. It will be remembered
that the person who desires to invoke the perverse " Spirits of
Darkness" according to the method of Honorius must observe
a three days' fast ; he must further confess and approach the
Holy Altar. He should also, by the hypothesis, be a priest
of the Latin Church. After these three days, upon the
morrow, and at the hour of sunrise, he shall recite the Seven
Gradual Psalms, with the accompanying Litanies and Prayers,'
the whole on his knees ; further, he must drink no wine and
eat no meat on that day. Next, he shall rise at midnight
on the first Monday of the month,' and, seeing that he is
apparently a priest, shall say a Mass of the Holy Ghost.'
1 The reference is probably to the Litany of the Saints and the various orations which
follow it.
2 The three days' fast must therefore have been regulated so that it expired on the previous
Saturday.
3 The Mass of Pentecost, except the Epistle, which should be that of the Tuesday after
Pentecost, and the Gradual, for which there are special versicles.
267The Book of Ceremonial Magic
After the consecration, taking the Host in his left, hand, he
shall recite the following prayer on his knees .--
I
My Sovereign Saviour Jesus Christ, Son of the living God I
Thou Who for the Salvation of all mankind didst suffer the
death of the Cross ; Thou Who, before being abandoned to
Thine enemies, by an impulse of inefable love, didst institute
the Sacrament of Thy Body; Thou Who bast vouchsafed to us
miserable creatures the privilege of making daily commemora-
tion thereof; do Thou deign unto Thine unworthy servant, thus
holding Thy Living-Body in his hands, all strength and ability
for the profitable application of that power with which he has
been entrusted against the horde ofrebellious spirits. Thou art
their true God, and ifthey tyemblelat the utterance of Thy Name,
upon that Holy Name will I call, crying Jesus Christ ! Jesus,
be Thou my help, now and for ever ! Amen..
After sunrise, a black cock must be killed, the first feather
of its left wing being plucked and preserved for use at the
required time. The eyes must be torn out, and so also the
tongue and heart ; these must be dried in .the sun and after-
wards reduced to powder. The remains must' be interred at .
sunset in a secret place, a cross of a palm in height being set
upon the mound, while at each of the four corners the signs
which here follow must be drawn with the thumb .--
268The Method of Honorius
A later edition substitutes the following signs :-
x
3 C
roe 11~Z_
-
On this day also the operator should drink no wine and
abstain from eating meat.
On Tuesday, at break of day, let him say a Mass of the
Angels,' placing the feather taken from the bird upon the
altar, together with a new penknife. The signs hereinafter
represented must be inscribed on a sheet of clean paper with
the consecrated wine which is the Blood of Jesus Christ :--
v 1 z~r &v
In an edition circa I8oo the following signs are substi-
tuted :-
'4.2~
13
They' should be written upon the altar, and at the end of
the Mass the paper should be folded in a new veil of violet
silk, to be concealed on the morrow, together with the oblation
of the Mass and a part of the consecrated Host .'
i The Mass. for the Apparition of St. Michael, May 8, with a special Epistle, Gospel,
Commemoration, &c.
* I give this direction as I find it : the oblation is the bread and wine, and the sacrilegious
reservation is the root-matter out of which the theory and practice of modern French Satanism
bas obviously arisen.
.269The Book of Ceremonial 'Magic
On the evening of Thursday the operator must rise at
midnight and, having sprinkled holy water about the chamber,
;
he must light a taper of yellow wax, which shall have been
prepared on the Wednesday and pierced in the form of a cross.
When it is lighted he shall recite Psalm lxxvii.i-Attendite,
popule mews, legem meam, &c.---without the Gloria Patri
He shall then begin the Office of the Dead with Venite
exult emus Domino, &c. He shall recite Matins and Lauds,
but in place of the versicle of the ninth Lesson I he shall
say : .Deliver us, 0 Lord, from the fear of hell . Let not the
demons destroy my soul, when I shall raise them from the deep
pit, when I shall command them to do my will. May the day
be bright, may the sun and moon shine forth, when I shall
call upon them. Terrible of -aspect are they, deformed and
horrible to sight; but do Thou restore unto them their angelic
shapes when I shall impose my will upon them. 0 Lord,
deliver me from those of the dread visage, and grant that they,
shall be obedient when I shall raise them up from hell, when
I shall impose my will upon them.
After the Office of the Dead the operator shall extinguish
the taper, and at sunrise shall cut the throat of a male lamb
of nine days, taking care that the blood does not gush forth
upon the earth. He shall skin the lamb, and shall cast its
tongue and heart into the fire. The fire must be freshly
kindled, and the ashes' shall be preserved for use at the proper
time. The skin of the lamb shall be spread in the middle of
a field and for the space of nine days shall be sprinkled four
times every day with holy water. On the tenth day, 'before
the rising of the sun, the lambskin shall be covered with the
1 This Psalm is numbered lxxviii. in the Authorised Version.
$ This is extremely confused l; the Office of the Dead does not begin. with the Venite
exultemur. The ninth Lesson belongs to the third Nocturne of the Matins . The prayer given
in the Grimoire is based on the verses which it replaces.
270The Method of Honorius
ashes of the heart and tongue, and with the ashes also of -the
cock. On Thursday,' after sunset, the flesh of the lamb shall
be interred in a secret place where no bird can come, and the
priest with his right - thumb shall inscribe on the grave the
characters',here indicated :-
3 3 3
L
- z '- z
-
In the edition already cited the signs are varied thus :-
Moreover, for the space of three days he shall sprinkle the
four corners with holy, water, saying : Sprinkle me, 0 Lord,
with hyssop, and I shall be cleansed! Wash me, and I shall
be made whiter than snow /
After the aspersion let him recite the following prayer,
kneeling with his face towards the east :-
PRA YJ R
Christ Jesus, Redeemer- of men, Who, being the Lamb
without spot, vast immolated for the salvation of the human
s The days on which the various operations should be performed have been confused, after
the prevailing manner of the Grimoires.
271The Book of Ceremonial Magic
race, Who alone wast found worthy to open the Book of Life,
impart such virtue . to this lambskin that it 'may receive- the
signs which we shall trace thereon, written with Thy blood, so
that the figures, signs and words may become efficacious ; and
grant that this skin may preserve us against the wiles of the
demons ; that they may be terrified at the sight of these figures
and may only approach them trembling. Through Thee, Jesus
Christ, Who livest and reignest through all ages. So be it.
The Litanies of the Holy Name of Jesus must then be
repeated, but instead of the.Agnus Dei, substitute : Immolated
Lamb, be Thou a pillar of strength against the demons ! Slain
Lamb, give power over the Powers of Darkness / Immolated
Lamb, grant favour and strength unto the binding of the Re-
bellious Spirits. So be it.
The lambskin shall be stretched for eighteen days, and on
the nineteenth day the fleece shall be removed, reduced into
powder and interred in the same place. The word vellus shall
be written above it with the finger, together with the following
character and the words :-May this which hath been reduced
into ashes preserve against the demons through the name of
Jesus.
J ill P
Y3E
Or, according to the later edition :-
272The Method of Honorius
Add also these signs
Or, according to the later edition :--
c ~+
Lastly, on the eastern side, the said skin must be set to
dry in the sun for three days, the ensuing characters being cut
with a new knife
On
Yx
This being accomplished, recite Psalm lxxi., Deus, judicium
tuum regi da, &c., and cut the. following characters
0
0
The figure being thus far completed, recite the verses Afferte
Domino, /atria gentium, occurring in Psalm xcv. : Cantate
Domino Canticum novum, of which the seventh versicle is
Ofterte Domino, Filii Dei, &c., and cut subsequently these
characters
kThe Betk- of Ceremonial Magic
Next recite Psalm lxxvii. : Attendite, fojuude meus,` legem
meam, and compose the. following figure --
0 lo
k
This being accomplished, recite Psalm ii. : Quare fremue-
runt gentes et ftoftuli meditati sunt inania ? Then make another
figure as follows :-
I ~Zf-Eoll1tto
Or, alternatively :-
And recite Psalm cxv. : Credidi ftrojter quod locutus sum.
Finally, on the last day, of the month a Mass for the Dead
shall be offered ; the prose shall be omitted and also the Gospel
of St. John, but at the end of the Mass the priest shall recite'
the Psalm Confitemini Domino quoniam bonus, &c.'
1 At this point the process of the Grimoire becomes almost unintelligible . The recitation
of the seventy-two names apparently succeeds the Psalm and is followed by the Second Gospel,
which is not omitted after all. There is then an extension of the Deo Gralias ; this concluded
the Mass, which seems immediately followed by the evocation. But the use of the Pentacles of
Solomon and St. John does not appear, in the one case, till the close of the Conjuration and
not at all in the other.
274The Method of Honorius
Honour of the Most Holy and August Trinity, the
Fathe the 'Son, and the Holy Ghost . Amen.
The Seventy-two Sacred Names of God.--TRINITAS,SOTHER,
MESSIAS, EMMANUEL, SABAHOT, ADONAY, ATHANATQ,S, JESU,
PENTAGNA, AGRAGON, ISCHIROS, ELEYSON, OTHEOS, TETRA-
GRAMMATON, ELY, SADAY, AQUILA, MAGNUS HOMO, VISIO; FLOS,
ORIGO, SALVATOR, ALPHA AND OMEGA, PRIMus, NovlsslMUS,
PRINCIPIUM ET FINIS, PRIMOGENITUS, SAPIENTIA, VIRTUS,
PARACLITUS, VERITAS, VIA, MEDIATOR, MEDICUS, SALUS,
AGNUS, OVIS, VITULUS, SPES, ARIES, LEO, Lux, IMAGO, PANTS,
JANUA, PETRA, SPONSA, PASTOR, PROPHETA, SACERDOS,
SANCTUS&IMMORTALITAS, JESUS, CHRISTUS, PATER, FILius
HOMINIS, SANCTUS, PATER, OMNIPOTENS, DEUS, AGIos, RE-
SURRECTIO, MISCHIROS, CHARITAS, XTERNAS, CREATOR, RE
DEMPTOR, UNITAS, SUMMUM BONUM, INFINITAS . AMEN.
Hereinafter follow the three small pentacles of Solomon,
and that of the Gospel of St. John.
CIrft
4OA&%L
F
A
N T2k4
kA*W
275The Book of Ceremonial Magic
The Beginning of the Holy Gospel according to John. Glory
be to Thee, 0 Lord.
IN THE BEGINNING WAS THE WORD, &C., in extenso, so far
as the end of the fourteenth versicle .
Thanks be to God. Hosanna to the Son of David / Blessed
is He Who cometh in the Name of the Lord . Hosanna in the
Highest. We invoke Thee. We adore Thee. We Praise
Thee. We glorify Thee, 0 blessed and glorious Trinity /
May the Name of the Lord be blessed, now and henceforth for
,ever / Amen In the Name of the Father, of the Son and
.,
of the Holy Gho'st, Jesus of Nazareth, King ofthe Jews. May
Christ conquer )11, reign I11, command i11 and defend me from
all evil. Amen.
UNIVERSAL CONJURATION
I, N., do conjure thee, 0 Spirit N., by the living God, by
the true God, by the holy and all-ruling God, Who created from
nothingness the heaven, the earth, the sea and all things that are
therein, in virtue ofthe Most Holy Sacrament of the Eucharist,
in the name of Jesus Christ, and by the power of this same
Almighty Son of God, Who for us and for our redemption was
crucified, sufered death and was buried ; Who rose again on
the third day and is now seated on the right hand of the
Creator of the whole world, from whence He will come to judge
the living and the dead ,. as also by the precious love of the
Holy Spirit, Perfect Trinity. I conjure thee within the circle,
accursed one, by thy judgment, who didst dare to tempt- God
I exorcise thee, Serpent, and I command thee to appear forth,
with under a beautiful and well-favoured human form of soul
and body, and to fu fl my behests without any deceit whatso-
276The Method of Honorius
ever, as also without mental reservation of any kind, by the
great Names of the God of gods and Lord of lords, ADONAY,
TETRAGRAMMATON, JEHOVA, TETRAGRAMMATON, ADONAY, JE-
HOVA, O HEOS, ATHANATOS, ISCHYROS, AdLA, PENTAGRAM
MATON, SADAY, SADAY, SADAY, JEHOVA, OTHEOS, ATHANATOS,
a Lici€V TETRAGRAMMATON, ADONAY, ISCHYROS, ATHANATOS,
SADY, SADY, SADY, CADOS, CADOS, CADOS, ELOY, AGLA, AGLA,
AGLA, ADONAY, ADONAY. I conjure thee, Evil and Accursed
Serpent, N., to appear at my will and Pleasure, in this place,
before this circle, withoutttarrying, without, companions, without
grievance, without noise, deformity or murmuring. I exorcise
thee by the inefable Names of God, to wit, Gog and Magog,
which I am. unworthy to pronounce : Come hither, Come hither,
Come hither. Accomplish my will and desire, without wile
or falsehood. Otherwise St. Michael, _the invisible Archangel,
shall presently blast thee in the utmost depths of hell. Come,
then, N., to do my will.
THE GRAND PENTACLE OF SOLOMON
277The Book of Ceremonial Magic
A. P.
Why tarriest thou, and why delayest ? .What doest am?
Make ready, obey thy master, in the name of the Lord, BATHAT
or RACHATflowing over ABRACMENS, ALCHOR over ABERER.
L. Q. L. F. A. P.-
Behold the Pentacle of Solomon which I have brought into
thy presence! I command thee, by order of the great God,
ADONAY, TETRAGRAMMATON and JESUS I Hasten, full my
behests, without wile or falsehood, but in all truth, in the name
ofthe Saviour and Redeemer, Jesus Christ.
DISCHARGE
Go in peace unto your Places. . May there be peace between
us and you, and be ye ready to come when ye are called. In
the Name of the Father, and of the Son, and ofthe Holy Ghost.
Amen.
ACT OF THANKSGIVING
Praise, honour, glory and blessing be unto Him Who sitteth
upon the throne, Who liveth for ever and ever. Amen.
CONJURATION OF THE° BOOK'
I conjure thee, 0 Book, to be useful and profitable unto
all who shall have recourse to thee for the success of their
affairs. I conjure thee anew, by the virtue of the Blood - of
Jesus Christ, contained daily in the chalice, to be serviceable
unto all those who shall read thee. I exorcise thee, in the Name
1 This is the Liber Spirituum of Pseudo-Agrippa, sufficiently described in Part I. The
introduction of it in this Grimoire presupposes either an acquaintancein the reader or informa.
tion which is omitted.
278The Method of Honorius
of the Most Holy Trinity, in the Name ofthe Most Holy Trinity,
in theName ofthe Most Holy Trinity/l
Whatfollows must be said before the sealing of the Book
I conjure and command you, 'O Spirits, all and so many
as ye are, to accept this Book with good grace, so that whenso-
ever we may read it, the same being approved and recognised
as in proper form and valid, you shall be constrained to appear
in comely human form when you are called, accordingly as
the reader shall judge. In no circumstances shall you make
any 'fit upon the body, soul or spirit of the reader, nor
inflict any harm on those who may accompany', him,"either, by
mutterings, tempests, noise, scandals, nor yet. by lesion or by
hindrance in the execution of the commands of this Book. I
is
conjure you to appear immediately when the conjuration
made, to execute without dallying all 'that is written and enu-
merated in its proper dace in the said book. You shall obey,
serve, instruct, impart and perform all in your Power for the
benefit of those who command you, and the whole without illusion.
If perchance some of the invoked spirits be unable to come or
appear when required, they shall be bound over to send others
vested with their power, who also shall swear solemnly to execute
all that the reader may demand, and ye are all hereby enjoined
by the Most Holy Names of the Omnipotent Living God, ELOYM,
fur
JAH, EL, ELoy, TETRAGRAMMATON, to everything as it
is set forth above. If ye obey me not, I will force you to abide
in torments for a thousand years, as also if any one of you
receive not this Book with entire resignation to the will of the
reader.
CONJURATION OF THE DEMONS
In the Name ofthe Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy
Ghost. Take heed/ Come, all Spirits / By the virtue and
279The Book of Magic
Ceremonial
power of your King, by the seven crowns and chains ar, f your
Kings, all Spirits of the Hells are forced to appear in my
Presence before this pentacle or circle of Solomon, whensoever
I shall call them. Comet then, all at my orders, to fulfil that
which is in your power, as commanded. Come, therefore,from
the East, South, West and North/ I conjure and command
you, 1by the virtue and Power of Him Who, is three, eternal,
equal, Who is God invisible, consubstantial, in a word, Who
has created the heavens, the sea and all which is under heaven.
After these Conjurations you shall command them to affix
the Seal
CONCERNING THE FIGURE OF THE CIRCLE
Circles should be described with charcoal or holy water,
sprinkled with the wood of the blessed Cross .' When they
have been duly made, and the words have been written about,
the circle, the holy water which has served to bless the
same
may also be used to prevent the spirits from inflicting any hurt.
Standing in the middle of the circle, you shall command them
in a lively manner, as one who is their master.
WHAT MUST BE SAID IN COMPOSING THE
CIRCLE
0 Lord, wefly to Thy virtue / 0 Lord, confirm this work !
What is operated in us becomes like dust driven before the
wind, and the Angel of the Lord pausing (sic), let the darkness
disappear, and the Angel of the Lord ever pursuing, ALPHA,
OMEGA, ELY, ELOHE, ELOHIM, ZABAHOT, ELION, SADY.
t On the hypothesis that the Method of Honorius is dealing in efficacious Rites provided
that its conditions are fulfilled, the operation must fail because this requirement is unattainable,
if not indeed impossible. I mention this point for the benefit of those occultists who may
possibly believe in the efficacy. I do not think that they exist, but seeing that there is no end
to occult foolishness, it is within the compass of a dream.
280The Method of Honorius,
Behold the Lion Who is the conqueror ofthe Tribe ofJudah, the
Root ofDavidl I will open the Book, and the seven sealsthereof.
I have beheld Satan as a bolt falling from heaven. It is Thou
Who past given us power to crush dragons, scorpions and all
Thine enemies beneath Thy feet. Nothing shall harm us, not
even ELOY, ELOHIM, ELOHE, ZABAHOT, ELTON, ESARCHIE,
'THE MAGIC CIRCLE OF HONORIUS
ADONAY, JAH, TETRAGRAMMATON, SADY. The- earth is the
Lord's and all those who dwell therein, because He established
it upon the seas and prepared it in the midst of the waves.
Who shall ascend unto the mountain of the Lord? Who shall
be received in his Holy Place? The innocent of hands and
clean of heart. Who hath not received his soul in vain and
hath .not sworn false witness against his neighbour. The
same shall be blessed of God and shall obtain mercy of God to
his salvation. He is of the generation of those who seek Him.
281The Book of ' Ceremonial Magic
Open your gates, ye princes, open the eternnaall gates, and the
King of Glory shall enter I Who is this King ofGlory? - The
Lord Almighty, the Lord, mighty in battle. Open your gags,
ye princes / Lift up the eternal gates. Who is this King of
A LESSER PENTACLE OF SOLOMON
Glory? The Lord Almighty. This Lord is the King of Glory.
Glory be to the Father, &c.
To dismiss them, the Pentacle ofSolomon must be exhibited,.
at the same time saying as follows :--
Behold your sentence ! Behold that which forbids rebellion
to our wills and doth ordain you to return unto your abodes.
May peace be between us and you, and be ye ready to come;
each and all, as ye are called to do my will. .
282CONJURATION OF THE KING OF THE EAST
I conjure and invoke thee, 0 powerful King of the East,
MAGOA, by my holy labour, by all the names ofDivinity, by the
name of the All-Powerful : J command thee to obey, and to
come to me, or that failing,forthwith and immediately,to send
unto me MASSAYEL, ARiEL, SATIEL, ARDUEL, ACORIB, to re-
spond concerning all that I would know and to fuAl all that
I shall command. Else thou shalt come_ verily in thin own
person, to satisfy my will ; which refusing, I shall compel thee
by all the virtue and power ofGod.
The Grand Pentacle or Circle of Solomon will answer for
the above and following Conjurations, which can be said on all .
days andat all hours. If it be desired to speak only with one
spirit, one only need be named, at the choice of the reader.
CONJURATION OF THE KING OF THE SOUTH
0 EGYM, great King of the South, I conjure and invoke -'
thee by the most high and holy Names of God, do thou here
manifest, clothed with all thy power; come before this circle,.,
or at least send-meforthwith Fadal, Nastrache, to make answer
unto me, and to execute all my wishes. If thou failest, I shall
force thee by God Himself.
CONJURATION OF THE KING OF THE WEST
0 BAYMON, most potent King, who reignest in the Western
quarter, I call and I. invoke thee in the name ofthe Deity / I
command thee by virtue of the Most High, to send me immedi-
ately before this circle the Spirit Passiel Rosus, with all other
Spirits who are subject unto thee, that the same may answer
in everything, even as I shall require them. If thou failest, I
283The Book of Ceremonial Magic
will torment thee with the sword offire divine ; Twill multiply
thy sufferings and will burn thee.
CONJURATION OF THE KING OF THE NORTH
O'thou, AMAYMON, King and Emperor of the Northern
parts, I call, invoke, exorcise and conjure thee, by the virtue
and power of the Creator, and by the virtue of virtues, to send
-me presently, and without delay, Madael, Laaval, Bamlahe,
Belem and Ramath,, with all other Spirits of thine obedience,
in comely and humanform / In whatsoever place thou now art,
come hither and render that honour which thou owest to the
true living God, Who is thy Creator. In thename ofthe Father,
I
of the Son and of the Holy Ghost, come therefore, and be
obedient, in front ofthis circle, without peril to my body or soul.
Appear in comely human form, with no terror encompassing
thee. I conjure thee, make haste, come straightway, and at once.'
By all the Divine names-SECHIEL, BARACHIEL-if thou- dost
not obey promptly, BALANDIER, suspensus, iracundus, Origra-
tiumgu, Partus, Olemdemis, and Bautratis, N. I exorcise
thee, do invoke and do impose most high commandment upon
thee, by the omnipotence of the living God, and of the true
God ; by the virtue of the holy God, and by the Power of Him
Who spake and all things were made, even by His holy command-
ment the heaven and earth were made, with all that is in them I
I adjure thee by the Father, by the Son and by the Holy,Ghost,
even by the Holy Trinity, by that God Whom thou cant not
resist, under Whose empire I will compel thee ; I conjure thee
by God the Father, by God the Son, by God the Holy Ghost,
by the Mother of Jesus Christ, Holy Mother and perpetual
Virgin, by her sacred heart, by her blessed milk, which the Son
of the Father sucked, by her most holy body and soul, by all
the parts and" members of this Virgin, by all the suferings,
1
284The Method of f onorius-
afictions,, labours, agonies which she endured during the whole
course of'her life, by all the sighs she uttered, by all the holy
tears which she shed whilst her_ dear Son wept before the time
ofHis dolorous passion and on the tree of the Cross, by all the
sacred holy things which are ofered and done, and also by all
others, as in heaven so on earth, in honour ofour Saviour Jesus
Christ, and of the Blessed Mary, His Mother, by whatsoever is
celestial, by the Church Militant, in honour ofthe Virgin and of
all the Saints. In like manner, I conjure thee by the Holy
Trinity, by all other mysteries, by the sign of`the Gross, by the
most Precious blood and water which flowed from the side of
Jesus Christ, by the sweat which issued from His whole body,
,when He said in the Garden of Olives : My Father, if it be
possible,let this chalice pass from me. I conjure thee by His
death and passion, by His burial and glorious resurrection, by
His ascension, by the coming of the Holy Ghost. I adjure thee,
furthermore, by the crown of thorns which was set upon His
head, by the blood which flowed from His feet and hands, by the
nails with which He was nailed to the tree of the Cross, by the
holy tears which -He shed, by all which He suffered willingly
through great love of as : by the lungs, the heart, the hair, the
inward parts, -and all the members of our Saviour Jesus
Christ. I conjure thee by the judgment of the living and the
dead, by the Gospel words of our Saviour Jesus Christ, by His
preachings, by His sayings, by His miracles, by the child in
swaddling-clothes, by the crying child, borne by the mother: in
her mostpure and virginal womb ; by the-glorious intercession
ofthe Virgin Mother of our Saviour Jesus Christ ; by all which
is of God and of His Most Holy Mother, as in heaven so on
earth. I conjure thee by the holy Angels and Archangels,
by all the blessed orders of Spirits, by the holy patriarchs and
prophets, by all the holy martyrs and confessors, by, all the
285Tie Ba-ok ,~. Ceremonial Magic
holy virgins and innocent widows, by all the `saints of mod,
both men and women. I conjure thee by the head ofSt. John
the Baptist, by the "ilk ofSt. Catherine, and by all the Saints.
CONJURATIONS FOR EACH DAY OF THE WEEK
For Monday, to Lucifer
This- experience is commonly performed in the circle
between eleven and twelve o'clock, or between three and four.
Requisites : coal, and consecrated chalk to compose the circle,,
about which these words must be written : Iforbid thee, Lucifer,,
in the name-of the Most Holy Trinity, to, enter within this
circle. A mouse must be provided, to give him-, the master
must have a stole and holy water, an alb also and a surplice.
He must recite the Conjuration in a lively manner, commanding,
sharply and shortly, as a lord should address his servant,' with
all kinds of menaces : SATAN, RANTAM, PALLANTRR, LUTAIs,
I This is in opposition to the higher counsels of the averse art, which enjoins a certain
reverence in addressing the lost angels, presumably on account of what they were.
286
rThe Method of Honorius
CORICACOEM, ScIRCIGREUR, I require thee to give-me very
In my, &c.
CONJURATION
I vonsj a thee, Lucifer, by the living God, by the true God,
by the holy God, Who spake and all was made, W)w commanded
and all things were created and made t I eonjure thee by the
Ine ible Names of God, ON, ALPHA and OMEGA, ELOY, ELOYM,
YA,-SADAY, Lux,MUGIENS, REx,SALUS, ADONAY, EMMANUEL,
MESSIAS and I adjure, conjure, and exorcise thee by the Names
which are' declared under the letters V, 0, X, as also by the
Names JEHOVAH,SOL, AGLA,'RIFFASORIS, ORISTON, ORPHITNE,
PHATON IPRETU, OGIA, SPERATON, IMAGON, AMUL, PENATON,
SOTER, TETRAGRAMMATON, ELOY, PREMOTON, SITMON, PERI-
GGAARROONN,, IRATATON, PLEGATON, ON, PERCHIRAM, TIROS, RUBI-
PHATON, SIMULATON, PERPI, KLARIMUM, TREMENDUM, MERAY,
and by the ,most, high Ineffable. Names 'of God, GALi, ENGA,
EL,. HABDANUM, . INGODUM,, OBu ENGLABIS, .do thou make
haste to come, or send me N., having a comely ,and human form,
in no wise repulsive, that he may answer in real truth whatsoever
I shall ask him, being also powerless to hurt me, or any person
whomsoever, either in body or soul .
For Tuesday, to Frimost 1
This experience is performed in its proper circle at night
from nine to' ten o'clock, and the first stone found is given to
-him. He is to be received with dignity and honour . Proceed
as on. Monday compose the circle, -and write about it : Obey
me, FRIMOSTI Obey me, FRIMOST I Obey me, FRIMOST I
CONJURATION
I conjure and command thee, FRiMOST, by all the names
wherewith thou canst be constrained and bound / I exorcise
i Otherwise, Nambroth.
287,
The Book of Ceremonial Magic
thee, NAMBROTH, by: thy name, by the virtue of all spirits, by
all characters, by the Jewish, Greek and Chaldean conjura
tions, by thy confusion and malediction, and I will redouble thy
pains and torments from day to day for ever, if thou come not
now to accomplish my will and submit to all that I shall com-
mand, being powerless to harm me, or those who accompany me,
either in body or soul.
For Wednesday, to.,~Astaroth
This experience is performed in its circle at night, from ten
to eleven o'clock ; it is designed to obtain the good graces of
the King and others. Write in the circle as follows: Come,
ASTAROTH 1' Come, ASTAROTH! Come, ASTAROTH l
CONJURATION
I conjure thee, ASTAROTH, wicked spirit, by- the words and
virtues of God, by the Powerful God, Jesus Christ of Nazareth,,
288The Method of Honorius
unto Whom all demons are submitted, Who was conceived of
the Virgin Mary ; by the mystery of the Angel Gabriel, I con-
jars thee and again in the name of the Father, and of the
Son, and of the Holy Ghost; in the name of the glorious Virgin
Mary and. of the Most Holy Trinity, in Whose honour do
all the Archangels, Thrones, Domination, Powers, Patriarchs,,
Prophets, Apostles and Evangelists sing without end ;' Hosannah,
Hosannah, Hosannah, Lord God of Hosts, Who art, Who"vast,
Who art to come, as a river of burning fire / Neglect not my
commands, refuse not to come. I command thee by Him Who
shall appear with flames to judge the living and the dead,
unto Whom is all honour, praise and glory. Come, therefore,
promptly, obey my will; appear and give praise to the true:
God, unto the living God, yea, unto all His works ; fail not to
obey me, and give honour to the Holy Ghost, in Whose name I
command thee. -
289The Book of Ceremonial Magic
For Thursday, to Silcharde
This experience is made at night, from three to four o'clock,
at which hour he is called, and appears in the form of a King .
A little bread must be given him when he is required to
depart ; he renders man happy and also 'discovers treasures.
Write about the circle as follows : Holy God l Holy God l
Holy God/
CONJURATION
I conjure thee, SI CHARDE, by the image and likeness of
Jesus Christ our Saviour, Whose death and passion- redeemed
the entire human race, Who also wills that, by His providence,
thou appear forthwith in this dace . I command thee by all the
Kinglbms of God. I adjure and constrain thee by His Holy
Name, by Him Who walked upon the asp, Who crushed the
lion and the dragon. Do thou obey. me and fujIl my commands,
290The Method of Honorius
being powerless to do harm unto me or any Person whomsoever,
either iii body or soul.
For Friday, to Bechard
This experience is performed at night from eleven to twelve
o'clock, and a nut must be given to him . Write within the
circle ©ome, BECEARD I Come, BECHARD I Come, BECHARD I
CONJURATION
I conjure thee, BECHARD, and constrain thee, in like manner,
by the Most Holy. Names of God, ELOY, ADONAY, ELOY,'AGLA,
SAMALABACTAY, which are written in Hebrew, Greek and Latin ,
byall the sacraments, by all the names written in this book ; and
by him who drove thee from the height of Heaven. I conjure
and command .thee by the virtue of the Most Holy Eucharist,
which bath redeemed men from their sins ; I conjure thee to
come without any delay, to do and Perform all my biddings,
291The Book of Ceremonial` Magic
without any prejudice to my body or soul, without harming
my book or doing injury to those that accompany me.
For Saturday, to Guland1
This experience is performed at night from eleven to twelve
o'clock, and so soon as he appears burnt bread must be given
him. Ask him anything that you will, and he will obey you
on the spot. Write in his. circle: Enter not, GULAND ! Enter
not, GULAND ! Enter not, GULAND !
CONJURATION
I conjure thee, 0 GULAND, in the name of Satan, in the
name of Beelzebub, in the name of Astaroth, and in the name
of all other spirits, to make haste and appear Ibefore4me. Come,
then, in the name of Satan and in`the names of all other demons.
Come to me, I command thee, in,the Name of the Most Holy
1 Otherwise, Nabam.
292The. Method of Hon-orius
Trinity. Come,_without inflicting any harm upon me, without
injury to my body or soul, without maltreating my books or
anything which I use. I command thee to appear without
delay, or, that failing, to send me forthwith another Spirit having
the_same power as thou hast, who shall accomplish my commands
and be submitted to my will, wanting which, he whom thou
shaltmsend me, -if indeed thou comest not thyself, shall in no
wise depart, nor until he hath in all things fulfilled my desire.
For Sunday, to Surgat'
This experience is performed at night from eleven to one
o'clock. He will demand . a hair of your head, but give him
one ofa fox, and-see that he takes it. His office is to discover
and transport all treasures and perform anything that you may
will. Write in his circle TETRAGRAMMATON, TETRAGRAM-The Book of Ceremonial Magic
MATON, TETRAGRAMMATON. ISMAEL, ADONAY, IHUA. And in a
second circle : Come, SURGAT r Come, SURGAT 1 Come, SURGAT I
CONJURATION
I conjure thee, 0 SURGAT, by all the names which are written
in this book, to present thyself here before me, promptly and
without delay, being ready to obey me in all things, or, failing
this, to despatch me a Spirit with a stone which shall make me
invisible to every one whensoever I carry it ! And I conjure
thee to be submitted in thine own person, or in the person of
him or of those whom thou shalt send me, to do and accomplish
my will and all that I shall command, without harm to me or
to any one, so soon as I make known my intent.
Very Powerful Conjurationfor all days and hours ofthe Day or
Night, being for Treasures hidden by .men or Spirits, that
the same may be possessed and transported
I command you, 0 all ye demons dwelling ; in these parts,
or in what part of the world soever ye may be, by whatsoever
power may have been given you by God and our, holy Angels
over this place, - by- the powerful Principality of the infernal
abysses,. as also by all your -brethren, both 'general and special
demons, whether dwelling in the East, West, South or North,
or in any side of the earth, and, in like manner, by the power
of God the Father, by the wisdom of God the Son, by the virtue
of the Holy Ghost, by the authority I derive from our Saviour
Jesus Christ, the only Son of the Almighty and the Create,
Who made us and all creatures from nothing, Who also ordain
that you do hereby abdicate all power to guard, habit 'and abide
in this place ; by Whom further I constrain and command
you, nolens volens, without guile or deception, to declare me
your names and to leave me in peaceable possession ,and rule
294MY this place, of whatsoever legion you be and of whatsoever
part of the world ; by order of the Most Holy Trinity and by
the merits of the Most Holy and Blessed Virgin, as also of
all the saints, I unbind you all, spirits who abide in this place,
and I drive you to the deepest infernal abysses . Thus : Go,
all Spirits accursed, who are condemned to the flame eternal
which is prepared for you and your companions, if ye be re-
bellious and disobedient. I conjure you by the same authority,
I exhort and call you, I constrain and command you, by all
the powers of your superior demons, to come, obey and reply
positively to what I direct you, in the Name of Jesus Christ.
Whence, ifyou or they do not obey promptly and without tarry-
ing, I will shortly increase your torments for a thousand years
in hell. I constrain you therefore to appear here. in comely
human shape, by the Most High Names of God, HAIN, Lori,
HILAY, SABAOTH, HELIM, RADISHA, ,LEDIEm1, ADONAY,
JEHOVA, YAH, TETRAGRAMMATON, SADAI, MESSIAS, AGIOS,
ISCHYROS, EMMANUEL, AGLA, Jesus Who is ALPHA and OMEGA,
the beginning and the end, that you be justly established in
the fire, having no power to reside,-habit or abide in this place
henceforth; and I require your doom by the virtue of the said
Names, to wit, that St. Michael drive you to the uttermost of
the .infernal abyss, in the Name of the Father, and of the Son,
and of the Holy Ghost. So be it.
I conjure thee, Acharn,, or whomsoever thou mayest be, by
the Most Holy Names of God, b yMALHAME, J AE, MAY, MABRON,
JACOB, DASMEDIAS, ELOY, ATERESTIN, JANASTARDY, FINIS,
AGIos, ISCHYROS, OTHEOS, ATHANATOS, AGLA, JEHOVA,
HOMOSION, AGA, MESSIAS, SOTHER, CHRISTUS VINCIT, CHRIS-
TUS IMPERAT, INCREATUS SPIRITUS SANCTUS .
I conjure thee, Cassiel, or whomsoever thou mayest be, by
all the said names, with power and with exorcism I I warn thee
295,The Book of Ceremonial Magic
by the other Sacred Names of the most great Creator, which_,are
or shall hereafter be communicated to thee; hearken forthwith
and immediately to my words ; observe them- inviolably, as
x
sentences of the last dreadful day of judgment, which thou
must obey inviolately, nor think to repulse me because I am a
sinner,for therein shale thou repulse the commands of the Most
High Go, d. Knowest thou not that thou art bereft of thy powers
before thy Creator and ours ? Think therefore what thou re-
fusest, and pledge therefore thine obedience, swearing by the
said last dreadful day of judgment and by Him Who hath
created all things by His word, Whom all creatures obey. P. per
sedem' Baldarey et per gratiam et diligentiam tuam habuistl
ab-eo hanc nalatimanamilam, as I command thee 1
I It is impossible to restore the Latin so that it shall possess an intelligible andconstructive
sense.
HORUS-RAi WEARING THE SOLAR
DISC AND URIEUS.
296CHAPTER VIII
i%ceIianeous anO 9 tnoe j3toceSaeo
. Concerning- Works of Hatred and Destruction
H E following process appears in several manuscript
copies of the Key of Solomon, but has been omitted
by the English editor of that work, as others are also
omitted, presumably as a Goetic interpolation. But we have
seen that a Goetic process in a book like the Key of Solomon
is not necessarily an interpolation, while as regards this par-
ticular instance it is very nearly evident that it is an integral
portion of that dubious collection. In the second chapter of
the-first book we are told that the days and hours of Mars are
suitable for overthrowing enemies, while the hours of Saturn
and Mars, and also the days on which the Moon is in con-
junction with those planets, are excellent for experiments of
hatred, enmity, quarrel and discord. In the first chapter of
the second book it is said -As for operations of destruction
and desolation, we should put them into execution on the day
of Saturn at the first hour, or rather at the eighth or fifteenth
of the day, and from the first until the eighth hour of the
night. . From these statements it seems fair to infer that
there must have been a section containing directions as to the
performance of such works. In this case, the Key of Solomon
is neither better nor worse than any other Grimoire of, Black
Magic-as indeed we have reason to know by its admitted
297The Book of Ceremonial Magic
sections. The apologists of the Clavicle-if there are any
apart from its English editor-will probably cite in defence of
it a passage which occurs in Book-i, c. 8, in which the author
proffers his ' secrets on the express condition that they shall
not be used to ruin and destroy one's neighbour . But when,
every allowance has been made for this stipulation, we shall
do well to remember that similar warnings are not wanting
in purely Goetic rituals. There is further another test by
which the authenticity of the following process may be largely
determined, and that is the manner of its wording, which
corresponds closely with the prevailing manner of the Clavicle.
It is- a loose and general wording, covering several classes of
experiment, and-if any one is sufficiently ridiculous or suffi-
ciently ultra-serious to desire that the question be tested-it
may be compared with Book I, c. xv., xvi., xvii., in which
the same characteristics will be found.
The process itself is as follows :-Experiments upon enemies
may be performed in several ways, but, whether with waxen
images or some other instrument, the particulars of each must
be diligently and faithfully observed. Should the day and hour
fail thee, proceed as already laid down, and prepare the image
y
or instrument proper to this effect in the order and manner
thereof. Fumigate with the proper perfumes, and if writing be
required on the image, let it be done with the needle or stylet
of the art, as aforesaid. Next recite the following words
once over the said image :--VSOR, DILAPIDATORE, TENTATORE,
SOIGNATORE, DEVORATORE, CONCITORE, ET SEDUCTORE. 0 all-ye
ministers and companions, I direct, conjure, constrain and com-
mand you to fu fl this behest willingly, namely, straightway to
consecrate this image, which- is to be done in the name of
that as the face of the one-is contrary to the
other, so the same may never more look one u on another.
298 14Miscellaneous and Minor Processes
-Deposit the image in some place perfumed with evil odours,
especially those of Mars, such as sulphur and assafoetida. Let
it remain there for one night, having duly asperged it, observing
the proper hour and time. Do likewise when the experiment
is performed with characters and names, by touching the lovers'
with words, or by whatsoever other manner. But when the
experiment is made by giving something to be eaten, the same
must be performed on the day and hour proper to this work.
All things being prepared, place them before you, and say
Where are ye, TSQIGNATORE, USORE, .DILAPIDATORE, and DENTORE ;
CONCISORE, DIVORATORE, SEDUCTORE, and SEMINATORE ? Ye who
sow discord, whereare you f Ye who infuse hatred and yopagate
enmities, I conjure you by Him who hath created you for this
ministry, to fuXI this work, in order that whensoever N.
[naming theperson] shall eat oflike things, or shall touch them,
in whatsoever manner, never shall he go in peace.
Give then whatsoever you please to the person designated,
-but let, it be in the hour of Saturn or that of Mars, observing
all things needful for such experiments.
2. Concerning Venereal Experiments
We have `seen that the sorcerer of the Middle Ages was
usually squalid and necessitous ; hence he coveted treasures
he was usually despised, and hence he longed for mastery, for
the prestige of mystery and the power of strange arts : he
was usually lonely and libidinous, and hence he sought, by
means of spells and philtres, to compel the desire of women.
To be rich in worldly goods, to trample on one's enemies and
to gratify the desires of the flesh-such are the ends, variously
qualified and variously attained, of most Ceremonial Magic ;
hence also the Rituals abound in Venereal Experiments.
1 Thismeansthat theexperiment is forthe occult consolation of a rival. It will be seen,
however, that there is a certain confusion, as the adjuration which follows will exhibit .
299In such as the Grinorium Verum- there is no attempt to
hide their illicit nature; in the Key ofSolomon it is disguised,
but the process for obtainingK favour and love which occurs in
that work is not really a more lawful experiment than that Pour,
faire venir une Fille vows trouver, si sage qu'elle snit. The
Key of Solomon is reticent and the Grimoires are frank the
one promises the fulfilment of the operator's desire without
defining it ; the others are explicit and particular. It is true
also that the one has recourse to Adonai and implores his
assistance, while the others invoke the powers of Hell .
The Book ofTrue Black Magic for once ignores the experi-
ence of the Clavicle and substitutes the following :-
Concerning the Experiment of Love
Whatsoever person be the object of this experiment, whether
man or woman, it is needful in making it to observe the proper
day and hour. . Note further that it is performed by means of
an image of wax or other suitable matter. Before composing it,
say the following words. over the wax : NoGA, JES, ASTROPOLTM,
ASMO, COCCAV, BERMONA, TENTATOR, SOIGNATOR-I conjure you,
ministers of love and incontinence, by Him who hath condemned-
you to hell / Do ye consecrate this wax in a regular manner,
that it may acquire the desired virtue, by the power of the Most
Holy Adonay, Who liveth and reignethforever and ever. Amen.
The image must then be composed and suitable characters
inscribed -thereon with the male goose-quill of the Art, after
which it must be. fumigated while reciting the following words
-O thou most powerful King PAYMON, whose absolute rule -
and reign is in the western quarter / 0 thou, EGIM,_moSt Strong
King, whose empire is' in the cold region / O- thou, ASMODEVS,
who governest in the South / 0 thou, AYMAMON,Imost noble
300Miscellaneous and Minor Processes
King,- monarch of the Eastern world, whose reign began from
of old and will endure to the end of time I I invoke and be-
seech you by Him Who stake and it was, Whose sole word
bath created all, Whom all creatures obey by the seat of His
Majesty ; by His Will and His Name ; by Him Who was before
the ages and hath created the ages ; Whose Name is written
with the four letters JoD, HE, VAU, HE ; by the enchantments
and power thereof and by all the signal Names of the Creator ;
I conjure you-to consecrate this image and grant that it may
acquire virtue according to our desire, by the Most Holy Name
Adonay, the power ofwhich is without beginning or end. -
This being done, conjure with the Conjuration of the image,
andif the woman or man should not appear, place the said image
beneath the pillow of your bed, and before three days you shall
behold admirable things, while chains or earth shall not ,stay'
the desired person from coming to you, for the fulfilment of
your purpose, nothing being excepted.
But if the experience be to find the beloved, person, place
the image under the door which he or she must pass. In
either case a powder must be, made and cast upon the person,
or given them with their meat or drink. The solemnities of
the hours, matters and instruments must be faithfully observed,
and the Spirits conjured by name, saying also : I conjure and
constrain you, ye Devils, who have the power to disturb the
hearts of men and women / By Him Who path created you
from nothing and by this image, I conjure you this night into
my,presence, that I may have the power to compel whomsoever
I will to love me, whether male or female.
When the characters and images have been prepared, say
over them : I conjure you, 0 ANAL, DONQUEL, THELIEL,
princes of love, and all your ministers, who have power -to fill
301with fervour the hearts of men and women, and to kindle the
fire of love t I conjure you by Him Who is seated * the
Cherubim and guardeth the abysses, by Him Who maketh the
world to tremble, Whom all creatures obey / Grant- that these
characters and figures may possess this virtue, that such man
or woman may love me, may desire me and thirst for my love,
and that it shall be impossible for him or her to love any' person
save me.
Place the image in a vessel for one night, operate on the'
day and in the hour appropriate thereto, and you shall behold a
wonder.
The compiler of the Grimorium Verism, who seems to have
selected almost invariably the most bizarre processes, instructs
his pupils
HOW TO CAUSE THE APPEARANCE OF THREE LADIES OR
THREE GENTLEMEN IN ONE'S ROOM AFTER SUPPER
§ i. Preparation
Abstain for three days from the hidden offices, and then
shall your spirit be fortified. On the fourth day, you shall
cleanse and prepare your chamber as soon as it is morning,
immediately after dressing, the whole fasting. But see you do
it in such a way that it will not be liable to disarrangement
during the remainder of the day. Note that there must be no
hangings, nor anything set crosswise, no tapestries, no hang-
ing clothes, hats, bird-cages, bed curtains, &c . Above all, let
the appointments be clean in every respect.
§ 2. Ceremony
After supper pass in secret to your chamber, made ready as
above ; kindle a good fire ; place a white cloth on the table,
round which set three chairs, and before each chair, upon the
302Miscellaneous and Minor Processes
table, let there be a wheaten roll and a glass full of fresh clear
water. Lastly, draw up a chair and settee to the side of the
bed and retire to rest, uttering the following
CONJURATION
Besticitum consolatio veni ad me vertat Creon, Creon,
Creon, cantor laudem omnipotentis et non commentur. Stat
sujerior carta bient laudem omviestra principiem da montem et
inimicos meos 8 Prostantis vobis et mihi dantes que passium
ieri sincisibus.
The three persons, having arrived, will rest themselves near
the fire, drinking, eating and finally thanking him or her who
has entertained them ; for if it be a young lady who performs
this ceremony, three gentlemen will come ; but if it be a man,
three young ladies will appear. The said three persons will
draw lots among each other to know which of them shall
remain -with you. If a man be the operator, she who wins will
- place herself in the arm-chair which you have set by the bed,
and she will remain and commune with you until midnight, at
which hour she will depart with her companions, without any
need of dismissal. As regards the two others, they will keep
themselves by the fire, while the other entertains you. So long
as she remains you may question her upon any art or science,
or upon what subject soever, and she will immediately give you
a positive answer. You may also inquire of her whether she is
aware of any hidden treasure, and she will instruct you as to its
locality and the precise time suited to its removal . She will
even appear there with her companions to defend you against
the assaults of the Infernal Spirits who may have it in their
possession. At parting, she will present, you with a ring, which,
worn on the finger, will render you lucky at play, while if it
be placed upon the finger of any woman or girl, you shall there
303The Book of Ceremonial Magic
and then have your will with them. Observe, however, that
you must leave your window open in order that they may
enter.
This ceremonymay be repeated frequently at the will of the
operator.
It must be acknowledged that the above experiment offers
a large return for very small pains in the preparation, and hence
it is very popular with the makers of Grimoires . The same
observation applies to the following process, which is common
to the supplementary portions of the Grand Grinwire, the
Grimorium Verum, the Grimoire of Honorius and most of the
minor collections. It is described, as an experience of the
wonderful power of the Superior Intelligences. The nature of
the superiority may, however, be inferred from the title ..
To CAUSE A GIRL TO SEEK YOU OUT, HOWEVER PRUDENT
SHE MAY BE
Whether in the increase or wane of the Moon, a star must
be observed between eleven o'clock and midnight. But before
beginning do as follows. Take a virgin
parchment. Write thereon her name whose
presence you desire. The parchment must
be shaped as ,represented in the following
figure. On the other . side inscribe these
words : Melchiael, Baresehas. Then place
your parchment on the earth, with the per-
ssoonn''ss name against the ground. Set your
right foot above it, while your left knee is
bent to the earth. I n this position observe
the brightest star in the firmament, holding in the right hand a
taper of white wax, large enough to last for an hour, and recite
the following
304Miscellaneous and Minor Processes
CONJURATION
I salute and conjure you, 0 beautiful moon, Ubeautiful Star,
0 bright light which I hold in my, hand / By the air which I
breathe, by the breath which is within me, by the earth which r
touch, I conjure you, and by all the names ofthe spirits who are
princes residing in you; by the ineffable Name ON, which
hath created all ; by thee, 0 Resplendent Angel Gabriel, to-
gether with the Prince Mercury, Michiael and 'Melchidael1
I conjure you again by all the Divine Names of God, that you
send down to obsess, torment and harass the body, spirit, soul
andfive senses ofthe nature of N., whose name is written here
below, in such a way that she shall come unto me and accomplish
my will, having no: friendship for any one in. the world, but
especiallyfor N., so long as she shall be indiferent to me. So
shall she endure not,' so shall she be obsessed, so suffer, so be
tormented. Go then, promptly ; go, Melchidael, Baresches, Zazel,
Firiel, Malcha, and all those who are without you (sic). I
conjure you by the great living God to accomplish my will, and
I, N., do promise to satisfy you duly .
Having thrice pronounced this conjuration, place the taper
on the parchment and let it- burn. Take the parchment on the
morrow, put it in your left shoe and there leave it , until the
person for whom you have operated shall have come to seek
you out. You must specify in the Conjuration the day that you
desire her to come, and she will not fail.
This process has its disadvantages, and even its difficulties .
It seems absurd to suppose that there are Spirit Princes in-
habiting;the flame of a taper, and the treatment invoked upon
the lady is of a turbulent kind, nor is there any colourable
pretence on which the position of the rival lover can be justified_
305 UThe Book of Ceremonial Magic
but it has the touch' of the picturesque, and, making all allow-
ance for -the potencies which may inhere in Sator, Arepo,
Tenet, Opera, Rotas, it does not suffer seriously by comparison
with the method of the Clavicle.
§ 3. Concerning the Experiment of Invisibility ,
We shall see later on that- there are certain processes found
in the Grimoires which do not connect with Black -Magic
otherwise than by their place in the Grimoires . There -are
also other processes which are not in themselves Goetic, but
are objectionable on account of the abuse to which they -are
liable. It is curious to observe how experiments of this kind
will in one Ritual appear under a harmless guise but will in
another bear all the marks of diabolism . The experience of
Invisibility, with which we are here concerned, illustrates all
these points.
Here Ceremonial Magic pretends to place its adepts in
possession of the ring of Gyges. Presuming that the Key of
Solomon is the most ancient of all the Rituals, it is there that
the formal process first occurs. It is accomplished, however,
without the intervention of a ring, by means of a simple pre-
liminary invocation, and an address toAlmiras, Masterand Chief
of Invisibility, whatsoever may be necessary for the particular
occasion, such as characters and circles, being left to the dis-
cretion of the operator. There is also a complementary process
by means of a waxen image ;_ it occurs in one manuscript copy
and is given by the- English editor. The- person who has duly
made and consecrated this image is supposed to become in-
visible when he carries it. If we now turn to the Book ofTrue
Black Magic, we shall find the first experiment adapted as
follows :-Before making the experiment of invisibility these
words must be committed to memory: SCABOLES, HABRION,
306Miscellaneous and -Minor Processes
ELY',, ELIMIGIT, GABOLII, SEMITRION, MENTINOBOL, SABANITEUT,
TERFMOBOL, CANE, M;ET,H BALUTI, CATEA, TIMEGUEL, BORA, by the
empire which ye exert over us, fulfil this work, so that I may
become invisible.' The said words, must be written with the
blood before mentioned,$ and the following Conjuration recited
0 ye Spirits of Invisibility, I conjure and constrain you in-
continently and forthwith to consecrate this experiment, so that,
surely and without trickery, I may go invisible., Furthermore,
I conjure you by Lucifer, your prince, by the. obedience which
you owe to him and by the power ofGod, incontinently to aid
me by. consecrating ,,this experiment, without loss of my body or
my soul. So be it, so be it, so be it.
Prepare :all things required `for this experiment with due
solemnity and,diligence, as it is laid` down in the chapter proper
thereto : so shalt thou operate with certainty and so find the
-truth ;: but failing any of the things needful, thou shalt not
attain thy desire, for not by the walls but the gate may any
man enter a town.
This, is merely a shorter recension of the process contained
in the Clavicle, with the reference to Lucifer interpolated.
In place of these bald, and somewhat unmeaning directions,
the Grimorium Verum supplies an excessively curious process,
at once monstrous and fantastic, recalling, the sorceries of
Thessaly and having direct connections with, folk-lore.
To -.become Invisible
Begin this operation on a Wednesday before the sun rises,
being fdrnished with seven black beans. Take next the head
I These names are given as follows by the English editor: Sceaboles,- Arbaron, Elohi,
El-q1h, Herenebulcule, Metbe, Baluth, Timgyal, Villaquiel, Teveni, Yevie, Ferete, Bacuhaba,
Guvarin.
Possibly that of a mole, used in the consecration of the instruments.
307 -The Book of Ceremonial Magic
of a dead man ; place one of the, beans in his mouth, two in
his eyes and two in his ears. Then make upon this head the
character of the figure which here follows . (Omitted in all the
Grimoires.) This done, inter the head with the face towards
heaven, and every day before sunrise, for the space of nine
days, water it with excellent brandy. On the eighth' day- you
will find the cited spirit, who will say unto you : What driest
thou ? You shall reply I am watering my'plant. He will
then say : Give fne that bogle; I will water it myself. You will
answer by refusing, and he will again ask, you, 'but you will
persist in declining, until he shall stretch forth his hand and
shew you the same figure which you have traced upon the head
suspended from the tips of his fingers . In this case you may
be assured that it is really the spirit of the head, because another
might take you unawares, which would bring you evil, and
further, your operation would be unfruitful. When you have
given him your phial, he will water the head and depart. On
the morrow, which is the ninth day, you shall return and will
find your beans ripe. Take them, place one in your mouth,
and then look at, yourself in a glass. if-you cannot see yourself,__
it is good. Do the -same with the rest, or they may be tested
in the mouth of a child. All those which do not answer Must
be interred with the head.
The advantage of occasional invisibility in the pursuits of
illicit affection seems to have fascinated the compiler of the
Little Albert, and he refers to the adultery of Gyges with
evident relish in prefacing his process for
Invisibility by means of a Ring
This important operation must be performed on a Wednes-
day in spring-time, under the auspices of Mercury, when it is
308Miscellaneous and Minor Processes
known to be conjoined with other favourable planets, such as
the Moon, Jupiter, Venus or the Sun.- Taking good mercury,
fixed and well purified, compose a large, ring thereof, so that
the same will pass easily over the middle finger- of the hand .
Let the collet be enriched by a small stone which is found in
the pewit's nest, and about the ring let the following words
be enchased : ;J epsausss'ing i}1 through the midst of them
d4aJeared* 1
Next, having placed the ring on a palette-shaped plate of
fixed mercury, compose the perfume of mercury, and thrice
expose the ring to the odour thereof; wrap it in a small piece
of taffeta corresponding to the colour of the planet, carry it
to the pewit's nest from which the stone was obtained, let it
remain there for nine days, and when removed, fumigate it
precisely as before. Then preserve it most carefully in a small
box, made also of fixed mercury, and use it when required.
The method of use is to place the ring upon the finger with
the stone outwards ; it will so fascinate the spectators by its
virtue that one may be present without being beheld When
the wearer no longer desires to be invisible, he has merely to
turn the ring, so that the stone shall be inward, and close the
hand over it,
But L`liphas Levi affirms that the only authors who have
written seriously concerning the ring of Gyges or its equiva-
lents are Porphyry, lamblichus and Peter of Apono ; that their
discourse is allegorical and that they are referring to the Great
Magical Arcanum. However, this may be, the Little Albert
supplies an alternative process which it pretends to derive from
these authorities and also from Cornelius Agrippa, sometimes
termed the master, of Peter of Apono in defiance of chronology -
I Compare the Magic Circle of Honorius .
309The Book of Ceremonial Magic`-
and the centuries. The first requisite is >a tuft of hair taken
from the head of a hyena, and from the upper part `thereof.
These hairs must be plaited into a ring, which must be carried,
like the other, to a pewit's nest and deposited therein, also for
the_ space of nine days. The perfumes of mercury must be
used in like manner. The person who wears this ring will be
invisible and he will reappear by removing it from his finger.
Eliphas Levi observes that the directions recall the history
of the bell of Rodilard, but the criticism is scarcely commen-
surate, for the material_ is certainly obtainable, nor would it be
necessary to catch one's own hyena. The point which was,
missed by the occultist may be evident to the ordinary reader
the head of the hyena is short-coated, and the hairs could not
be braided. It is not, however, unreasonable' that impossible
conditions should attach tp an impossible object.'
4. Concerning' the Hand 4f Glory
No person who is familiar with the humours of Ingoldsby
will have forgotten the wondrous legend of the Hand of Glory,
which includes a transcript' from the Grimoires. It' is less
generally known that there are two processes; serving' distinct
uses, and there can be little doubt that they should ,both be in
the possession of every well-equipped operator, who is anxious
to. test the virtues of White and Black Magic in this particular
form. The possession of the. first alone might be a source.of
temptation, as 'it is designedd primarily for the yprotection. of
burglars. The- second renders housebreaking unnecessary,_as
1 A process was also provided againstt fascination and deception by means of the.;ring of
invisibility. It consists in the composition of a ring similarly shaped, made of refined lead, and
enc'hased with the eye of a female' ferret which has had only one litter. The words 4,0aruit
Dominus Simonishould be engraved about the circumference. .It should be composed on:a
Saturday when Saturn is in opposition with Mercury, perfumed three times with the perfume
of Saturday, wrapped in a piece of a winding-sheet, next buried for nine days in a churchyard,
perfumed, when disinterred, as before, and it is then ready foruse.
340Miscellaneous and Minor Processes
it ensures a decent competence, but., is at the same time with-
out prejudice to its companion, which might be serviceable in
a number of emergencies not, at least technically, illegal.
According to the Albertus Parvus Lucii Libellus, the Hand
of Glory is indifferently the,
right or left hand of a criminal
who has been gibbeted. The
sorcerer obtains it as he can,
and in the days of Tyburn
Tree such requisites might -
have cost nothing beyond the
personal risk of the adven-
ture ; it is indispensable, how-
,ever, that it should be wrapped
in a piece of winding-sheet,
and this suggests that the
criminal must have been pre-
viously cut down with a view
to interment. Thus, enclosed,
the hand must be well squeezed
so as to force out any blood
which may possibly remain in
the member, after which it
must be placed in am earthen
vessel, together with some
zimort, saltpetre, common salt and pepper-corns-all pounded .
It should remain in this vessel for fifteen days and when
extracted should be exposed to the heat of 'the sun during
the time of the dog-star until it- is extremely desiccated . If
solar warmth be insufficient, it may be placed in a furnace,
heated with bracken and vervain. The object is to extract
all the grease from the member, and therefrom, in com-
3IIbination with virgin waaxndd sesame from Lapland, to com-
pose a species of candle. Wheresoever this frightful object
is lighted, the spectators will be deprived ofall motion and the
sorcerer can do what he will. It is' possible to destroy its
influence by anointing the threshold of thee door, or other
places through which entrance may be gained to a house, with
an unguent composed of the gall of a black cat, grease- from
a white fowl and the blood of a screech-owl. This should also
be confected in the dog-days.
It is to be regretted that this signal process does not rest
upon the personal testimony of its historian, but he was present,
as report tells us, at the trial of several who confessed, under
torture, that they had applied it with complete success. It is
to be regretted also that the alternative experiment -must
remain, as regards its materials, in the language of its `inventor.
It will -be seen, however, that the Hand of Glory is not aland,
but a serpent the process has, in fact, no connection whatever'
with its name, but this is wholly in accordance with the genius
of Black Magic, its variants and its substitutes .
Arrachez le poll avec sa racine d'une jument en chaleur, le
plus pros de la nature, saying : DRAGNE, DRAGNE, DRAGNE.
Tie the same in' a knot, and go forthwith to purchase, without
haggling, a new earthen pot, -fitted with a lid. Return home
at full speed fill the said pot with spring -water within two
inches of the brim. Place your material therein, cover the
vessel, and set it where neither you nor any one can perceive
it, for the same is danger, saith the Grimoire.- At the end of
nine days, and at the hour of concealment, bring it forth, open
it, and you will discover a small animal in the form of a serpent,
which will at once spring up. Say then : I accept the pact.
Touch not the creature, with your hand, but transfer it into a
new box, purchased expressly, without bargaining ; for the food
312Miscellaneous and Minor Processes
of the monster give husks of wheat only, and those daily.
When you are in want of gold or silver, place as much as you
need in the box ; retire, to rest with the box at your bedside ;
sleep, if you wish, for `the space of three or four hours then
rise,. and you, willQ find double the amount of money which you
have entrusted to the-serpent. What you originally placed in
the box must, however, be left therein, and it becomes there-
fore a sort of transcendental savings-bank which doubles its
capital daily. Should the reptile be of ordinary appearance,
you must not try for more than one hundred francs at a time ;
but if your planet give you the ascendant in things supernatural,
the serpent will have a human face, and you may deposit a
thousand francs. In either case, should the operator part with
his possession, two conditions must be observed : the recipient
must be a- consenting party to the gift, and a figure, to be
drawn on virgin parchment,, but omitted by the Grimoire,
must be placed in the -box. If, however, you prefer to destroy
it, let the serpent be provided, not with his usual bran, but
with 'some of the flour used "for consecration in the first Mass
of _a priest, after eating which he will die. On the whole, it will
be simpler to retain the enchanted animal, more especially as"
the vague responsibilities of the pact are not apparently trans-
ferred, in the one or annulled in the other case. No jest is
intended, says the dry author of the Grimorium Verum, but
the process of the Gold-Finding Hen is on the whole simpler,
as it is^ also more cleanly..
Vision of Spirits in the Air
§ 5. Concerning the
For the Masters of Black Magic, as for the author of the
Comte de Gabalis, the air is the abode of far other beings than
the bird and fly, but the process by which they are rendered-
visible is complicated through the exceptional nature of the
3 13,
The Book of Ceremonial Magic
required materials. I t is, _, of course, quite possible to secure
the brain of a cock, and dissection with that object may perhaps
be performed by deputy ; the kitchen-maid or the poulterer's
assistant would be easily secured. The dust from the grave
of a dead man is the second ingredient of the process ; but a
visit to the nearest cemetery will not be sufficient,- because it
is useless to collect it on the surface ; that which is next to the
coffin will alone serve the purpose . _ In addition to these sub-
stances there are only oil of almonds and virgin wax. A com-
post must be made of the four, and it must be wrapped in a
sheet of virgin parchment inscribed previously with the words
GOMERT, KAILOETH, and with the character of Khil.
The materials being thus prepared, it remains to set them
alight, whereupon 'the operator will behold- that which the
Grimoire characterises. as ' prodigious, but does not specify
except by the indication of the title. This experiment, it adds,
should be performed only by those who fear' nothing.
It is easy to deride the process, but reflective persons will see
that it is the quintessence and summary of the whole art. This
is Black Magic- and most of the white kind-in the proverbial
nutshell-a combination in equal' proportions of the disgusting
and the imbecile. There are many more elaborate experiments,
but few of such a representative 'kind. It is not necessary to-
add that it has been exceedingly popular. and is to, be found in
most of the Grimoires.
§ 6. Concerning Divination by the Word of Uriel
As there are many practices passing under the name of White
Magic which are doubtful in character on the surface, while
they are .more than doubtful within, so -there are experiences
described in the Grimoires, or in the treasuries of secrets which
accompany them, having nothing in their nature which can be
3'i 4 rMiscellaneous and Minor Processes
termed especially repulsive ; they belong, however, to the
Grimoires ; their connections in=occult literature are those of
Black Magic, and they deserve a place here. Moreover, 'a
process which in one Ritual will be merely curious or diverting,
hypnotic or clairvoyant, may in another bear all the outward
marks of diabolism. The mode of divination termed the. Word
or Speech of Uriel-signifying answers or oracles obtained from
that spirit ceremonially invoked-appears in the Grimorium
Verum as an experiment in lucidity induced by means of
Hydrornancy, but in the Verus Jesuitarum Libellus the Con-
juration of Uriel appears as an infernal conjuration, and it is a
process of Black Magic undisguised.
The experiment in the Grimorium Verum is worded as
follows :-
THE INVOCATION OF URIEL --
To succeed -in this operation, it is needful that whosoever
makes the experiment shall do in all things as hereinafter. en-
joined. Let him choose a small chamber or cabinet which
has not been frequented by impure women for at least nine days.
Let such place be well cleansed and consecrated by aspersions
andfumigation. In the middle of the said chamber let there
be a table covered with-a white cloth ; set as follows thereon-
to wit, a new glass phialfilled with spring water, drawn shortly
before the operation ; three small tapers of virgin wax mixed
with humanfat ; a sheet of virgin parchment six inches square ;
a raven's quill cut ready for writing ; a china ink-well filled
with fresh ink a small pan furnished with the materials for a
fire. Let there be also a young boy ofnine or ten years, cleanly
and modestly dressed and of good behaviour, who must be placed
near the table. One ofthe three tapers should be fixed upon a
great new needle at a distance of six inches behind the phial,
3 15Magic
The Book of Ceremonial-
and the two others, erected after the same manner, "should stand
on the right and left at the same distance. While arranging
these matters, recite the following words Gabamiah, Adonay,
Agla, 0 Lord God ofPowers, do Thou assist us !
41
The virgin, parchment should be on the right and the pen
with the ink on the left side of the phial. The windows and
door must be closed before beginning the operation. The fire
should then be stirred, the tapers lighted, and the boy placed
on his knees so that he can look into the phial ; observe that he
should be bareheaded and his hands joined. The Master of
the operation shall thereupon command him to gaze fixedly into
the phial, when, approaching his right ear, and in a moderate
,tone of voice, but as distinctly as possible, let him make the
following
i
CONJURATION
Uriel, Seraph, Josata, Ablati, Agla, Caila, I pray and
conjure thee by the Four Words which God uttered with His
mouth unto His, servant Moses, J osata, Ablati, Agla, Caila,
and by the Nine Heavens wherein thou dwellest, as also by
the virginity of this child who is before thee, that thou-appearesf,
and without any delay, visibly in this phial, to discover, without
disguising, the truth which I desire to know ; which done, I
will discharge thee in peace and goodwill, in the Name of the
Most Holy Adonay.
After this conjuration the child must be asked whether he
beholds anything in the phial ; and if he should reply that he
beholds an Angel or another apparition, the Master of the
operation shall say in an affable tone of voice : Blessed Spirit,
be thou welcome / I conjure thee once more, in the Name of
the Most Holy Adonay, to 'give me prompt enlightenment
3i6Miscellaneous and Minor Processes
upon, &c. [Here name the subject upon which information is
desired.] And if for reasons unknown to us, thou art unwilling
to proceed in an audible tone of voice,' I conjure thee in the
Most Holy Name of Adonay to write upon the virgin parch-
ment, here present, between now and to-morrow morning, or
at least reveal unto me that which I desire this coining night
in my sleep.
If the Spirit make answer to what is said, he shall be
heard respectfully ; should he fail to speak after thrice making
the same supplication, let the tapers be extinguished and
withdraw from the chamber, closing the door until the morrow,
when the operator may return in the morning,, and that which
was required will be found within, on the virgin parchment,
unless indeed it. shall have been made known in the night.
In the Verum Jesuitarum Libellus this-experiment in the
induction of clairvoyance by means of a seering cup and a
fantastic ceremonial, having-,only one monstrous condition, is
replaced by a fierce conjuration of - many, pages, commanding
the Spirit Uriel by all the words which have ever proceeded
out of the mouth of the Creator of Heaven and Earth against
the Evil Angels, and on pain of compulsion and torture,
to appear before the loperator, an unworthy servant of God,
wherever the said Spirit may be, even in the abyss- of Hell .
He is directed to appear visibly and modestly in a human form,
and to bring whatsoever is desired in all tranquillity and
patience, without tumult, without detriment, without blinding,
without dumbness, without whispering, without thunder, with-
out hail, without explosion, without puffing up, without trem-
bling. It is unnecessary to quote the entire citation, as the
1 That is, in a voice audible to the clairvoyant boy,, the process being obviously intended
for those who are not themselves seers. It recalls the vast leering experiments of Dr. Dee.
317The Book of Ceremonial Magic
process is not complete ; but it is evident that the Conjuration
of Uriel in the forged_ treatise on the Magic of . the Jesuits is
intended for the compulsion of a devil and not for the, solici-
tation_ of favours from the Blessed Spirit of the Grimorium
Verum.
§ 7. Concerning the Mirror of Solomon, suitable for alt Kinds
ofDivination
The following process is found in the Grimorium Verum
and in some other compilations. It is a mode of divination
akin to that given in the preceding section. 1 It does not con-
nect with Black Magic except by the' use of blood and is
really an auto-hypnotic experiment fortified by conventional
ceremonies.
To Compose the Mirror of Solomon
In the Name of the Lord, Amen. Ye shall- behold in this
mirror all things whatsoever that ye may desire. In the Name
of the Lord Who is blessed, in the Name of the Lord, Amen.
In the first place, ye shall do no fleshly actions, nor sin in
thought or deed, during the period hereinafter, prescribed. In
the second place, ye shall perform many good works of piety
and mercy. In the third place, take a shining` and well-
polished plate of fine steel, slightly concave, and with the
blood of a white pigeon inscribe thereon-to wit, at the four
corners-the names JEHOVA, ELOYM, METATRON, ADONAY.
Place the said steel in a clean and white cloth. Now, when ye
shall behold the new moon during the first hour after sunset,
draw nigh unto a window, look up to Heaven with devotion,
and say : 0 Eternal! 0 King Eternal ! God ineffable l Thou
Who hast created all things for love of men, and; by a secret
318Miscellaneous and, Minor Processes
judgment for the kea#h of man, do Thou deign to look upon -me,
N., Thy most unworthy servant, and upon _this my intention.
Vouchsafe to send unto me Thine Angel ANAEL, even upon
thismirror, who- doth ord, er, command and ordain his companions
and Thy subjects, whom Thou hast made, 0 Thou Almighty
Lord, Who halt, been,, Who art, Who shalt remain eternally,,
that in Thy Name they may judge and act justly, instructing
me in all that I shall require ofthem.
Lastly, cast upon burning, coals a suitable perfume, and
while casting it say : In this, by this, and with this, which I
pour out before Thy face, 0 God, my God, Who art blessed,
319The Bookof Ceremonial Magic
Three and One, and in the most sublime exaltation, Who stiffest
above the Cherubim 'and above the Seraphim, Who wilt judge
the world by fire, hear Thou'me i
Repeat this three times, and having done so, breathe also
thrice upon the mirror, and say : Come, ANAEL, come, and may
it be thy good pleasure to bee with me by thy will, in the
Name q of the Father mast mighty, in the Name oB of the
Son most wise, in the Name of the Holy Spirit most living!
Come, ANAEL, in the Name of the terrible Jehovah ! Come,
ANAEL, by the virtue ofthe immortal, Elohim / Come, ANAEL,
by the right arm of the almighty METATRON I Do thou come
unto me, N. (here repeat your name over the mirror), and so
command thy subjects that in love, joy and peace,, they may
make manifest unto ,my_ eyes the things which are hidden from
me. So be it. Amen-,
Having said and done as above, lift your eyes- to heaven
and say : 0 Lord Almighty, Who dost cause all things to move
according to Thy good pleasure, hear Thou my: prayer, and
may my desire be agreeable unto Thee! Lord, 0 Lord, if Thou
wilt, condescend to look upon this mirror and bless it, .that so
ANAEL, one of Thy servants, may pause thereon with his com-
panions, to satisfy me, N., Thy poor and humble servant, 0
God, blessed and exalted above all the heavenly Spirits, Who
livest and reignest forever and ever. Amen.
When you shall have accomplished these things, make the
sign of the Cross upon yourself and upon the mirror on the first
and following days for forty-five days in succession, at the end
of which time Anael will appear to you under the form of a
beautiful child, will salute you, and will command his com-
panions to obey you. Observe--says the process in its
3 a.Miscellaneous and Minor Processes
benignity-that it -does not invariably require forty-five days
to compose the mirror. The Angel will frequently appear
on the fourteenth day, according to the intention, devotion
and fervour of the operator. When he shall appear, ask
of him that which you desire, and pray him to come at all
times, ,whensoever you shall invoke him, to grant your de-
mands. On subsequent occasions, when you desire to see
in this mirror, it is not necessary to recite all the prayers as
above provided, but having perfumed it, say only : Come
ANAEL, come, according to thy good pleasure, &c .
To dismiss him, say : I thank thee,- ANAEL, because thou
bast appeared and hast satisfied my demands. Do thou there-
fore depart in peace, and return when I shall call thee.
The perfume of Angel is saffron.
~. 8. Concerning the Three Rings of Solomon,
Son of David
One more experiment, which is only incidentally connected
with Black Magic, may be cited here,- as the complement of
those given in the preceding sections. It is scarcely a complete
process and is not intelligible as it stands in the Grimorium
Verum, where the characters on which it depends are omitted.
The scheme presupposes that the operator is in possession
of a talisman inscribed with the Pentacles of Solomon,' when
it is open to him to proceed in accordance with the following
directions
Compose your circle, but before entering therein, perfume
it with musk, amber, aloes-wood and incense. When invoking,
the perfume should be incense only. Take care also that
1 The grand pentacle, as given by the Grimoire of Ho,wrius, will be found on p. 277-
321 XThe Book of, Ceremonial' Magic
you have fire whensoever you make invocation, and fumigate
only in` the name of the Spirit whom you would call. When
placing perfume on the 'fire, say : I burn this N. -ix the name
and to 44e honour of N. When invoking, see that you hold
1
the invocation in the left hand, having the rod of elder in your
right; while the ladles and knife should be at your feet. These
things being arranged, place yourself within the circle if,
accompanied, your companions should hold each other by one
hand. When within, trace the circle with the Knife of the Art,
and take up the rods one after the other, saying the fiftieth
Psalm, namely, Hiserem' mei. The circle being composed,
perfume and. sprinkle the same with holy water. Then write
the characters at _ the four corners ; let the Spirit be forbidden
in formal terms to enter, after which begin the invocations,
which musf be repeated seven successive times When the
Spirit shall have appeared, cause him to sign the character
which you hold in your hands, promising `to come always, at
your call. Ask for whatsoever you deem suitable, and you
shall be satisfied. Dismiss him with these words .: . Go in
peace unto ,r ftlaces, and pie he with you l c redww
at uy salt. In the name, &c. Amenti
4 Seethe method for the compositionof the Magic Red according~to the G Avmyn
in thesecond chapter of this.part.
Not previously mentioned under this name.
THE ASP OR CZRASTES.
322CHAPTER IX
Concerning 3jnfunnl ecromancp
T is only within recent times that the attempt to comniu-
nicate with the dead has been elevated to the dignity :ooff
White Magic. Here it is necessary to affirm that the
phenomena of Modern Spiritualism_ are to be distinguished
early from those of old Necromancy. The identity of purpose-
is,apt to connect the methods, but the latter differ generically.
To.comparesthem would be almost equivalent to saying that the
art of physical Alchemy is similar to mercantile pursuits because
the acquisition of wealth is the end in either case. To ap-
preciate the claim of Modern Spiritualism would be to exceed
the limits of this inquiry ; it is mentioned only with the object
of setting it quite apart. It should, however, be added that
occult writers-w4a the. indiscrimination which is common to
their kind have sometimes. sought ambitiously to represent the
communication with departed souls by means of Ceremonial'
Magic as something much more exalted than mere Spiritidlism
whereas the very opposite is nearer.tine truth. Ancient +e ro
mancy was-barbarous and horrible in its rites ; it is only under
the auspices of Elipl , Levi and Pierre Christian that it has
been purged and civilised, but in the hand of these elegant
magicians it has become simply a process of auto-halluc a
tion, hairiug no scientific consequence whatever. The secret of
true.. evocation belongs to the occult sanctuaries, by the hypo-
thesis of those who are their spokesmen; it is not the process
323of Spiritualism, and still less, so far as may be gleaned, is it
that- of the magical Rituals, nor would the secret at best seem
respected by those who possess it, because the higher soul, of
man transcends evocation, and that which does respond ought
to be beneath the initiate. -The claim, however, is naturally
one of delusion complicated by imposture.
In any case, the Necromancy of the Rituals is, properly
speaking, a department of Black Magic, and for this reason no
doubt' it was excluded from the theurgic scheme of the Arbatel;
nor do even such composite works as the two Keys of Solomon
and the Magical Elements contain any account of a process
which was always held in execration. It was lawful apparently
for the Magus to conjure and compel the devils, to rack the
hierarchy of Infernus by the agony of Divine Names, but he
must leave the dead to their rest.
Where the process is given, as in the Fourth Book of
Cornelius Agrippa, it is , confined to the evocation of - those
souls who might be reasonably supposed to be damned, and it
involves revolting rites. It assumes that the evil liver carries
with him into the next world the desires which have depraved
him here, and it allures him by his persistent affinities with
the relinquished body.' In this way the, use of blood came to
be regarded as indispensable, because blood was held to be the
medium- of physical life ; so also a portion of the body itself,
whether flesh or bone, was prescribed in the rite. There is not
any need to say that' evocations involving the use of such
materials belong to Black Magic, but they would not in any
case offer a redeeming feature to the consideration of the
informed student.
It is also to be understood," says pseudo-Agrippa, "that
The more intimate the knowledge possessed by the operator concerning the deceased
person, the more easily he was supposed to call him up.
324Concerning Infernal, Necromancy
those who are proposing to raise up the souls of any deceased
persons must do so in places with which it is known that they
were familiar, in which some special alliance between soul and
body may be assumed, or some species of attracting affection,
still leading the soul to such places. . . . Therefore the localities
most suited for the purpose are churchyards, and, better still,
those which have been the scene of the execution of criminal
judgments "-in plain words, the immediate neighbourhood of a
gibbet. A battlefield or other place of public slaughter is -still
more favourable, but best of all is the scene of a murder before
the removal ofthe carcase.
The ritual of Necromantic Evocation is indicated but not
given by the authority just cited ; we must seek it in Ebenezer
Sibley and in the supplementary portions of the Grand Grimoire
and the Red Dragon. The astrologer Sibley does not give
account of his sources, but they were evidently not in printed
books. The Sloane MS. numbered 3884 in the Library of the
British Museum would appear to have been one. It is, in
any case, not an invented process ; it develops the principles
laid down in pseudo-Agrippa and is quite in harmony with the
baleful genius of Black Magic. It is here given verbatim.
But if, instead of infernal or familiar spirits, the ghost or
apparition of a departed person is to be exorcised, the Magician,
with his assistant, must repair to the churchyard or tomb where
the deceased was buried, exactly at midnight, as the ceremony
can only be performed in the night between the hours of twelve
and one. The grave is first to be opened, or-an aperture made
by which access may be had to the naked body. The magician
having described the circle, and holding a magic wand in his
right hand, while his companion or assistant beareth a conse-
crated torch, he turns himself to all the four winds, and, touchingThe Book of Ceremonial Magic
the dead body three times with the magical wand, repeats as
follows :--By the virtue of the Holy Resurrection, and the
torments of the damned, I conjure and exorcise thee, Spirit
of N. deceased, to answer my liege demands, being obedient
unto these sacred ceremonies, on pain of everlasting torment
and distress BER.ALD, BEROALD, BALBIN, Gas, Gasoa,
AGABA. Arise, arise, I charge and command thee.'
After these forms and ceremonies, the ghost or apparition
-will become visible, and will answer any questions put to it by
the exorcist. But if it be desired to put interrogatories to the
spirit of any corpse that has hanged, drowned or otherwise
made away with itself, the conjuration must be performed while
the body lies on the spot where it is first found after the
suicide bath been committed, and before it is touched or re-
moved. The ceremony is as follows. . The exorcist binds upon
the top of his wand a bundle of St. John's wort or Millies
Perforatum, with the head of an owl ; and having repaired to
the spot where the corpse lies, at twelve o-elock at night, she
draws the circle and solemnly repeats these words :-By the
mysteries of the deep, by the flames of Banal, by the Power
of the East and the silence of the night, by the Hoiy Rites
of Hecate, I conjure and exorcise thee, thou distressed spirit,
to Present thyself here and reveal unto me the cause of thy
calamity, why thou didst offer violence to- thy own liege life,
where thou art now in being, and where thou wilt hereafter be.
Then gently smiting the carcase nine times with the rod, he
adds :-I conjure thee, thou Spirit ofthis N. deceased, to answer
my demands that I Propound unto thee, as thou ever hopestfor
the rest of the holy ones and ease of all thy' misery ; by the
1
The process by which the soul was called back into the dead body prior to its inter-
ment constituted ;necromancy proper. The calling up of the shadow was sometimes termed
aciomancy.
326Concerning- Infernal Necromancy .
Blood of Jesus which He shed for thy soul, I conjure and.-bind
thee to utter unto me what I shall ask We.
Then, cutting down the carcase from the tree, they shall lay
its head towards the east ; in the space that this following con-
juration is repeating, they shall seta chafing-dish of fire at its
right hand, into which they shall pour a little wine, some mastic
and some gum-aromatic, and lastly [the contents of] -a vial full
of the sweetest oil. They shall have also a pair of bellows and
some unkindled charcoal to make the fire burn bright when the
carcase rises. The conjuration is this :-
, conjure thee, thou Spirit ofN., that thou do immedia
enter into thy ancient body again and answer to my demands;
by the' virtue ofthe Holy Resurrection, and by the posture. ofthe
body,of the Saviour ofthe world, I, charge thee, I conjure We',
I command thee, on pain ofthe torments and wandering ofthrice
seven years, which I, by the force of sacred magic rites, have
Power to inflict upon thee ; by thy sighs and groans I conjure
thee to utter thy voice. So help thee God anti the prayers of
the Holy Church. Amen.
This ceremony being, thrice repeated, while the fire is. burn-
ing with mastic and gum-aromatic, the body will begin to rise,
and at last will stand upright before the exorcist, answering with
a-faint and hollow voice the questions propounded unto it : why
it destroyed itself, where its dwelling is, what its food and life .
are, how long it will be ere it enter into rest, and by what means
the magician may assist it to come to rest also of the treasures
off this world, where they are hid. Moreover, it can answer
very punctually concerning the ,places where ghosts reside, and
of the manner of communicating with them, teaching the nature
of Astral Spirits and hellish beings so far as its capacity alloweth .
327The Book of Ceremonial Magic
11
All this when the ghost hath fully answered, the magician ought
out of commiseration and reverence to the deceased, to use what
means can possibly be used for procuring rest unto the spirit, to
which effect he must dig a-grave, and, filling the same half full
of quick-lime, with a-little salt and common sulphur, must put
the carcase naked into it. Next to the burning of the body
into ashes, this is of great force to quiet and end the disturbance
of the 'Astral Spirit. But in this and in all cases where the
ghosts or apparitions of deceased persons are raised up and
consulted, great caution is to be observed by the Magician to
keep close within the circle ; for if, by the constellation and
position of ,the stars at his nativity, he be in the predicament of
those who follow the Black Art for iniquitous' purposes, it is
very dangerous to conjure any spirits without describing the
form of the circle, and wearing upon the `heart, or holding in-
the hand, the Pentacle 'of Solomon. For the ghosts of men
deceased can easily effect sudden death to the magician born
under such a constellation of the planets, even whilst in the
act of being exorcised.
It must be confessed that this process is grim and depress-
ing, and the occult student will not envy the sorcerer at the
first palpitation of the corpse. Yet the rite is methodical, and
even sober, when compared with the monstrous alternative
of the Grand Grimoire, which must be given on the authority
of Levi ; for no available editions of the work which is in
question, nor yet of the Red Dragon, nor indeed any ritual of
my acquaintance, contains it. There is reasonable probability
that he invented it to make out his case at the moment.
"There are also necromantic processes, comprising the
tearing up of earth from graves with the nails, dragging out
some of the bones, setting them crosswise on the breast, then
assisting at midnight mass' on Christmas Eve, and flying 'out
328Concerning Infernal Necromancy
of the church at the moment of consecration, crying : ' Let the
dead rise from their tombs!'-then returning to the graveyard,
taking a handful of earth nearest to the coffin, running back to
the door of the church, which has been alarmed by the clamour,
depositing the two bones crosswise, again shouting : 'Let the
dead rise from their tombs !'-then, if we escape being seized
and shut up in a madhouse, retiring at a slow-pace, and counting
four thousand- five hundred steps in a straight line, which means
following a broad road or scaling walls ; finally, having traversed
this space, lying flat upon the earth as if in a coffin, repeating
in doleful tones : ' Let the dead rise from their tombs ! '-and
calling thrice on the person whose apparition is desired ."
The object of Necromantic evocations was much the same
as the other operations of the Grimoires. If the sorcerer of
old, like the modern magician, had ever dispossessed the shade
of Apollonius of its eternal rest, it would have been upon a
question of finance. The remaining process in Necromancy
will be therefore an appropriate conclusion to our whole inquiry,
as it is- designed to raise up and expel a human spirit who is
supposed to stand guard over a hidden treasure. It is from
the Verus Jesuitarum Libellus, and is the ne pbus ultra of
Ceremonial Magic, however distributed according to the colours
of the spectrum. The end of all things is money, says the,
sorcerer, and if asked to define Occult Science, he would
answer that it was the method of obtaining concealed money.
The testimony of the entire literature coincides with this
definition.
A CONJURATION FOR THE SPIRIT GUARDIANS
OF HIDDEN TREASURE
I cite, require and command thee, Human Spirit, who fre-
quentest this place, and in thy life hast interred thy treasure
329The Book of Ceremonial . Magic
herein, who also"of recent time, to wit, in the day or night of
about the hour of hast she" thyself_ in theform
e,
of afire at this spot : I conjure thee by God the Father by
God the Son rjt, by God .the Holy Spirit i11, by the most glorious
and Holy Mother~ji ofGodop, by the most holy wounds of our
Saviour, by all miracles performed through His Divine sorrows,
passion and tears, by His material death, by His, descent into
Hell, by His triumphant Resurrection, by His mast glorious
ascension into Heaven, by His sitting on the right hand of God
the Father, giving rule to His angels from thence over the whole
earth Iji. I conjure thee by the terrible Day of-Judgment ,
by the power and virtue of St. John the Baptist 114, by all the
martyrs, apostles and prophets. Come to me. I adjure and
beseech thee by the terrible, inefable and Divine Names in-
scribed on this sheet, and in reverence and 'confession 'of- their
power, to come before , and to make thy sign visible, without
lightning, without thunder, without noise of dread tempests,
without causing fear or trembling, harm to body or soul, or
annoyance of any kind. But do thou . perform my will in all
things, even as I shall command thee, by the virtue of the one
stupendous and holy Name, which even the adverse and inferior
powers of the Abyss do venerate and adore, ever confessing the
Almighty, Whose creatures we all area Be this done by the
virtue of God the Father 111, by His blessed, Son 111 and by the
union ofthe Holy Spirit J4, even by the Trinity in unity,, Which
liveth and reignethfor ever and ever. Amen 111. Incessantly
do I call, adjure, con, jure, ordain and require thee, Human Spirit,
by the Most Holy and Undivided Trinity, by she immortality
which cometh after death, by the power and victory of Hell,
by the bearer of the Seven Swards, by the Most Holy and
Secret Seal, by the sacred love ofJesus, by all the Ministers and
Archangels of God, Ophanim e, Aralim tji, Hasmalim 111,
330Concerning Infernal Necromancy ,
leer '44, Seraphim 114, and acki . l}t,, and by the terrible
torments of the demons. I conjure thee- also by the good ang
Maluzim e, Penpalabim e, and Calizantin i1i, by all the powers
of Heaven e, by .the earth 4 and by the torments of Hell ; I
adjure thee by .all mysteries, by the Crucifixion, by the dolorous
scourging, by the crowning with thorns, by the bitterness of the
Divine death, by the Most Holy and Ineffable- Name ofJesus e,
which is sacred unto all Christians, but terror and anguish to the
evil, for they have refused the salvation which has been offered
them by the great living God. I conjure thee to come before
me immediately, in thy Proper human form, even as when thy
treasure was buried. Come before this circle, answer me faith-
fully, without falsehood and without enigmas. This I command
thee, in the Name and by the Power of the Triune God, Father,
Son and Holy Ghost. Amen.
A CONJURATION COMPELLING OBEDIENCE
I adjure and command thee, Human Spirit, to appear
before me under the similitude offire. By the inejable Name
JEHOVAH, by the ineffable and incomprehensible Fiat, by the
power which created all things and sustains all things, I conjure
and adjure thee to,come visibly before this circle. By the good-
ness of God when He created man in His own likeness, by the
power of His justice, which expelled the demons, enchaining
them in the Infernal Abyss ; by His: infinite mercy when He
sent His Son to redeem"Us ; by all Divine Names and Attributes
by the omnipotence of our Saviour Jesus Christ, destroying the
works of hell, blessing the seed of the woman and empowering
it to crush the serpent's head-do thou.answer me and obey
faithfully. By the ineffable Name TETRAGRAMMATON, inscribed
on this rod, answer. me without. deception or equivocation. By
331The Book of Ceremonial Magic
the power of our Saviour, Who shall judge both thee and' me,
the quick and the dead, I conjure thee . Come.
IF THE _SPIRIT BE OBSTINATE
I conjure thee, Human Spirit, by the Ineffable Name ofGod,
written on this sheet, but not to be pronounced; by my blood,
most excellently redeemed by the Lord- of the Prophets, Jesus
Christ; by His most Glorious Mother ; by the insignia of His
humility; by the great ,book of_the judgments of God; by the
angels, archangels and all the host of heaven . Be thou obedient
unto me, a Christian baptized in the holy waters of Jordan.
Answer me exactly, without enigma- or pretence. Make known
the power which aids thee. I command thee by the most holy
Name of God, Who hath condemned thee to frequent this place
wherein thou hast-buried thy treasure. Amen. Amen. Amen.
Citation
COLPRIZIANA, OFFINA, ALTA,,NESTERA, FUARO, MENUET.
Charge
ALIM, JEHOH, JEHOVAH, AGLA, ON, TETRAGRAMMATON.
When the Spirit makes visible appearance, say
ADON, SCHADAI, ELIGON, AMANAI, ELION, PNEUMATON,
ELII, ALNOAL, MESSIAS, JA, HEYNAA-N, TETRAGRAMMATON .
Add the following Conjuration :-
ADONAI, ZEBOTH, ADON, SCHADAI, ELION,' TETRAGRAM-
MAATON, ELOI, ELOHIM, MESSIAS, JA, HAGIOS, Ho THEOS.
Amen.
Say inwardly
ALLEY, FORTISSIAN, FORTIss o, ALLINSON, ROA.
332Concerning Infernal Necromancy
The Discharge
OMGROMA, EPYN, SEYQK, SATANY, DEGONY, EPARYGON,
GALLIGANON, ZOGOGEN, FERSTIGON.
The most barbarous and unintelligible words are said by
Picus de Mirandola to be the most powerful in Black Magic,
and the affirmation applies everywhere, for the whole art is
one of illiterate delight in unintelligible images. , As those here
cited from the Verus Jesuitarum Labeitus seem in most cases
fortuitous assemblages of letters,; they are doubtless all - that
can be desired, but additional constraints,and conjurations,
should the spirit of the deceased miser refuse to appear, will
readily occur to the reader.
Intt caba * Compktt "watt of
wac* is
W
-a
low
333TH E ceremonial literature -of White and Black Magic
has.- now spoken for itself in the catholic sense of
the words. We see partly what the Rituals had
to offer, by the hypothesis of their own claim, to those who
followed in their-putative practical courses. I presume once.more
that it is unnecessary to debate whether the Olympic Spirits will
make gold in a moment by Magic, transport, precious stones,
prolong life to several hundred years, teach all arts and pro-
vide the operator with ministering spirits in visible and corporal
form. These claims merely externalise the cupidity and other
desires of the artist. Hereof at least is the domain of the
occult working where it happens to suffer the title of tran-
scendental its entire term and horizon are within the limits
of low material gain and pleasure ; and the ambition of the
Magus was to secure these' advantages-firstly;by the trickery
and artifice of the occult world, instead of by his proper activity,
and-secondly--on a very much larger scale than was normally
likely or possible.
When we turn, however, to the Rituals which I have classed
as composite, we shall find that we are dealing with a much
more valued and popular series" of handbooks, and the head
or crown of all is held in the polite opinion of occult circles to
be white by its essential nature and only Goetic in its accre-
tions. As a matter of fact, it is Goetic by intention and
essence, and white only in the sense that some of its distracted
processes might, apart from their sanguinary nature,-be termed
334Conclusion
harm s. It i obvious, however, from the text that'- the
Intelligences who are the subjects of conjuration are fallen
spirits, and that one of the moieties in respect of their` ap-
parition is :the hideousness of their native form. The main
purposes ~ of experiment are (t) the recovery of stolen goods,
(2) the power to go invisible, for reasons which are of
certain because they pass unsaid (3) the possession of a buried
treasure ; (~) the seeking of love and favour. "Those that
remain are more expressly and literally of the order of Fairy-
land.,' This is so far concerning what is accepted as the proto-
type and fountain of the Art. The Infernal Hierarchy of the
Le etora seems from. time to time a promise of things more
important, but the diabolism of practical Magic was essentially
.of a popular kind in the bulk of its documents, and those which'
aimed too high-as, for example, at-,logic and philosophy, the
liberal sciences, eloquence and good unde~standing had com-
paratively few, votaries. To give riches, o kindle love and
lust, to-discover treasures--as these were the sum of ambition,
so they were the qualifications in chief demand from the spirim
The class of people to whom such considerations would appeal
were those obviously-and as I have, -otherwise indicated-who
could not obtain ffieirsatisfaction through the normal c
the outcasts, the incompetent, the ignorant, the lonely, the
deformed, the-hideous, the impotent and those whom Nature
and Grace alike denied.
"This is the category into which the modern psychic mind
w enter unwittingly, could I suppose for a moment that,
outside such puheus as Paris, there has been any revival
Ceremonial Magic in the nineteenth or twentieth cent ..
The- typical occult student is preposterous enough in his ,pre-
occupations, but when he takes the Grimoires seriously has
usually some assumption as to a meaning behind the of
5Conclusion
that they are allegorical writings, but rather that they asks
the' final issue, in abuse and travesty of something that looms
to his intelligence like real ktiowledge. The tendency in this
direction has been promoted by that knavish hypothesis con'-
-
cerning occult sanctuaries to which I alluded far back in this
work, and -to which I must refer again for a moment in these
final words.
As part of the root matter out of which comes the lying
art of spirits there stands forth the hypothetical efficacy of
adjuration, prayer and ceremonial acts of, worship in connection
therewith. But in Magic that efficacy-can be manifested only
over things trivial or abominable, because it is obvious that for.
any higher purpose we should have recourse thereto through
the ordinary channels of religion. If the hypothesis of prayer
is true, Magic is out of court on_ the side of holy things because
there is a more excellent way of obtaining the great gifts, the
good gifts, and the gifts' that do not pass away. But if it is riot
true, Magic is out of court also because it depends from and
comes down to the earth with that false assumption which .is at
.
its basis. As a matter of fact, Magic, White or Black, is the
attempt to direct the admitted efficacy into evil channels-to
compel the infernal cohorts with the assistance of the blessed
.hierarchies, and to enlist the sympathies of the latter on the
warrant of their appeasing invocation in foolish or discreditable
transactions. I should add that I characterise as of the essence
of evil the desire after power which puts the owner at an-ad-
vantage over those about him by interventions of an occult
nature, against which it would be generally impossible to
'
guard. I characterise the acquisition of knowledge without
_learning in the same way and for the same reasons. The other
ambitions, desires, greeds do not need express condemnation on
my part, for they speak too plainly -on their own . Out of the
336Conclusion
mouth of their proper hypotheses, the pseudo-art or science`is
that of the abyss. It remains, however, in most cases the abyss
of, evil intention, as the operator is left with his base, sordid,
sorry or fatuous ambition and not with the fruition thereof.
It may seem at first sight that I have been breaking laidly
worms on larger wheels than would have been required for
Gargantua, Behemoth or Leviathan ; but I am concerned
first of all with the preservation of the Secret Tradition in-
violate and with the separation of •fungoids and diseased and
monstrous gro*ths which have come to overlay it. The
magic of the Ceremonial Rituals is no part ofthe real tradition
it is not in any form that we know it of the veils thereof, nor
are they even its debasement. At the same time-and as we
have sufficiently seen-they do represent at a very far distance
a stream of averse tradition, and it is that of Jewry in the pre-
scription and suspension of the greater and age-long exile.
There is no question that the mind of Israel which produced
on the one hand the signal mystic testimony of the Zoharic
literature did,on the other betray the kind of preoccupations
which 'have given us Ceremonial Magic as their last evolution
in the pit and pools of thought. And this is their side of
importance. Jt is this only which has justified the present con-
sideration and the length to which it has extended.
THE CORNERS OF PAEADISE, GUARDED
BY FIRE-BREATHING URIEI.nazov knihy ==================the magus.pdf
INTRODUCTION
TO THE
STUDY 'OF NATURAL MAGIC,
OF THE INFLUENCES OF THE STARS.
It
has been a fubjeH of ancient difpute whether or not
the liars, as fecond caufes, do fo rule and influence man as to ingraft in his
nature certain pailions, virtues, propenfities, &c., and this to take root in him
at the very critical moment of his being born into this vale of mifery and
wretchednefs likewife, if their fite and configuration at this time do fhew
5
forth his future paffions and purfuijts and by their revolutions, tranfits, and
;
direfted afpefts, they point out the particular accidents of the body, marriage,
ficknefs, preferments, and fuch like the which I have often revolved in my
;
mind for many years paft, having been at all times in all places a warm
advocate for ftellary divination or altrology : therefore in this place it is highly
neceflary that we examine how far this influence extends to man, feeing that I
fully admit that man is endowed with a free-will from God, which the liars
can in no wile counteraft. And as there is in man thepower and apprehenfion
of all divination, and wonderful things, feeing that we have a complete fyllem
in ourfelves, therefore are we called the microcofm, orlittleworld for we carry
;
A
2 a heaven)
4 INTRODUCTION TO THE STUDY OF NATURAL MAGIC,
a heaven in ourfelves from our beginning, for God hath fealed in us the image
of himfelf and of all created beings we are the epitome, therefore we muft
;
be careful, left we confound and mix one thing with another. Neverthelefs,
man, as a pattern of the great world, fympathizes with it according to the
ftars, which, agreeably to the Holy Scriptures, are fet for times and feafons, and
not as caufes of this or that evil, which may pervade kingdoms or private
families, although they do in fome meafure forefliew them, yet they are in no
wife the caufe therefore I conceive in a wide different fenfe to what is gene-
;
rally underftood that “ Stars rule men, but a wife man rules the ftars to
which I anfwer, that the ftars do not rule men, according to the vulgar and
received opinion as if the ftars fhould ftir up men to murders, feditions, broils,
;
lulls, fornications, adulteries, drunkennefs, &c. which the common aftrologers
hold forth as found and true doCtrine becaufe, they fay, Marsand Saturn, being
;
conjun6f, do this and much more, and many other configurations and afflic-
tions of the two great infortunes, (as ihey are termed when the benevolent
planets Jupiter, Venus, and Sol, happen to be detrimented or afflicted there-
;
fore, then, they fay men influenced by them are molt furely excited to the
commiflion of the vices before named yet a wife man may, by the liberty of
his own free-will, make thofe affections and inclinations void, and this they
call “ To rule the ftars but let them know, according to the fenfe here un-
derftood, firft, it is not in a wife man to refill evil inclinations, but of the grace
of God, and we call none wife but luch as are endued with grace for, as we
;
have faid before, all natural wifdom from the hands of man is foolilhnefs in the
fiffht of God ; which was not before underftood to be a wife man fenced with
grace for why fhould he rule the ftars, who has not any occafion to fear con-
; —
quered inclinations ? therefore a natural wife man is as fubjeCt to the flavery
of fin as others more ignorant than himfelf, yet the ftars do not incline him to
fin. God created the heavens without fpot, and pronounced them good, there-
fore it is the greateft abfurdity to fuppofe the ftars, by a continual inclining of
us to this or that mifdeed, fhould be our tempters, which we eventually make
them, if we admit they caufe inclinations ; but know that it is not from with-
out, but within, by fin, that evil inclinations do arife : according to the Scrip-
tures,;
INTRODUCTION TO THE STUDY OP NATURAL MAGIC. h
tures, “ Out of theheartof man proceeds evil cogitations, murmurs, adulteries,
thefts, murders, &c.” Becaufe, as the heavens and apprehension of all celef-
tial virtues are fealed byGod in the foul and fpirit ofman fowhen manbecomes
;
depraved by fin and the indulgence ofhis grofs and carnal appetite, he then be-
comes the feat ofthe Infernal Powers, which may bejuftly deemed a hell for
;
then the bodily and flelhly fenfe obfcures the bright purity and thinnefs of the
fpirit, and he becomes the inftrument of our fpiritual enemy in the exercife of
all infernal lulls and paffions.
Therefore it is moft neceffary for us to know that we are to beware ofgrant-
ing or believing any effedts from the influences of the ftars more than they
have naturally becaufe there are many whom I have lately converfed with,
;
and great men, too, in this nation, who readily affirm that theJlars are the
eaufes of any kinds of difeafes, inclinations, and fortunes likewife that they
;
blame the liars for all their mifcondu6l and misfortunes.
Neverthelefs, we do not by thefe difcourfes prohibit or deny all influence to
the liars on the contrary, we affirm there is a natural fympathy and antipathy
;
amonglt all things throughout the whole univerfe, and this we lhall Ihew to be
difplayed through a variety of effects and likewife that the liars, as figns, do
;
forelhew great mutations, revolutions, deaths of great men, governors of pro-
vinces, kings, and emperors likewife the weather, tempells, earthquakes,
;
deluges, &c. and this according to the law of Providence. The lots of all
;
men do Hand in the hands of the Lord, for he is the end and beginning ofall
things he can remove crowns and fceptres, and difplace the moll cautious
;
arrangements and councils of man, who, when he thinks himfelf moll fecure,
tumbles headlong from the feat ofpower, and lies grovelling in the dull.
Therefore our altrologers in moll of their fpeculations feek without a light,
for they conceive every thing may be known or read in the liars : ifan odd
filver fpoon is but loll, the innocent liars are obliged to give an account of it
if an old maiden lofes a favourite puppy, away Hie goes to an oracle of divi-
nation for information ofthewhelp. Oh ! vilecredulity, to think thatthofe celef-
tial bodies take cognizance of, and give in their configurations and afpe6ts,
continual information of the lowelt and vilelt tranfa6lions of dotards, the moll
trivial6 INTRODUCTION TO THE STUDY OF NATURAL MAGIC,
trivial and frivolous quedions that are pretended to be refolved by an infpec-
tion into the figure of the heavens. Well does our legiflature juftly condemn as
juggling impoltors all thofe idle vagabonds who infeft various parts of this
metropolis, and impofe upon the fimple and unfufpefting, by anfwering, for a
(hilling or half-crown fee, whatever thing or circum(lance may be propofed
to them, as if they were God’s vicegerents on earth, and his deputed privy
counfellors.
They do not even fcruple ever to perfuade poor mortals of the lower clafs,
that they (hew images in glades, as if they a6tually confederated with evil
fpirits : a notable indance I will here recite, that happened very lately in this
city. Two penurious Frenchmen, taking advantage of the credulity of the
common people, who are continually gaping after fuch toys, had fo contrived
a telefcope or optic glafs as that various letters and figures (hould be refle61ed
in an obfcure manner, (hewing the images of men and women, &c. fo that
;
when any one came to confult thefe jugglers, after paying the ufual fee, they,
according to the urgency ofthequery, produced anfwers by thofe figures or let-
ters the which affrights the infpe61or into the glafs fo much, that he or fhe fup-
5
pofes they have got fome devildh thing or other in hand, by which they remain
under the full conviftion of having actually beheld the parties they wiflied to
fee, though perhaps they may at the fame time be refiding many hundreds of
miles didance therefrom they, having received this impredion from a pre-con-
:
eeived idea of feeing the image oftheir friend in this optical machine, go away,
and anon report, with an addition of ten hundred lies, that they have been
witnefs of a miracle. I fay this kind of deception is only to be a6fed with the
vulgar, who, rather than have their imaginations balked, would fwallow the
mod abominable lies and conceits. For indance, who would fuppofe that any
rational being could be perfuaded that a fellow-creature of proper fize and
—
ftature (hould be able by any means to thrud his body into a quart bottle ? the
which thing was advertifed to the public by a merry knave (not thinking
there were fuch fools in exidence), to be done by him in a public theatre.
Upwards of 600 perfons were affembled to behold the tranfa61ion, never
dcabting but the fellow meant to keep his word, when, to the great mortification
and“
INTRODUCTION TO THE STUDY OF NATURAL MAGIC. 7
and difgrace of this long-headed audience, the conjuror came forth amidft a
gene—ral ftir and buz, of “ Ay, now ! fee ! now ! fee ! he is juft going to jump
in.” Indeed,” fays the conjuror, “ ladies andgentlemen, I amnot for ifyou
;
werefuchfoolsastobelievefuchanabfurdity,I amnotwifeenough to do it : ’’
therefore, makinghis bow, he difappeared, to thegreat difcomfortofthefe wife-
heads, who flraightway withdrew in the bell manner they could.
As for the telefcope magicians, they were taken into cuftody by the gentle-
men ofthepoliceoffice, in Bow Street norwouldtheirfamiliar dothemthekind-
;
nefs to attempt their refcue.
But to have done with thefe things that are unworthy our notice as philofo-
phers, and to proceed to matters ofa higher nature : it is to be noted what we
havebeforefaid, inrefpedt of the influences of the liars, thatPtolemy, in hisqua-
drapartite, in fpeaking ofgenerals comes pretty near our ideas on the fubjedl
,
ofplanetary influence, ofwhich we did not at any time doubt, but do not admit
—
(nay, itisnotneceflary,feeing there is anaftrologyinNature), thateach action,
of our life, our affli6iions, fortunes, accidents, are deducible to the influential
effects of the planets : they proceed from ourfelves ; but I admit that our
thoughts, actions, cogitations, fympathize with the ftars upon the principle of
general fympathy. Again, there is a much ftronger fympathy between perfons
of like confiitution and temperament, for each mortal creature poffeffes a Sun
and fyftem within himfelf therefore, according to univerfal fympathy, we are
;
affected bythegeneral influenceor univerfal fpiritoftheworld, as thevital princi-
ple throughout the univerfe therefore we are not to look into the configurations
:
of the ftars for the caufe or incitement of men’s beftial inclinations, for
brutes have their fpecifical inclinations from the propagation of their principle
byfeed, notbythe fign ofthe horofcope therefore as man is oftentimes capable
;
of the actions and excefles of brutes, they cannot happen to a man'naturally
from any other fource than the feminal being infufed in his compofition for,
;
feeing likewife that the foul is immortal, and endued with free-will, which a6ts
upon the body, the foul cannot be inclined by any configuration of the ftars
either to good or evil but from its own immortal power of willingly being
;
feducedby fin, it prompts to evil but enlightened byGod, itfprings to good, on
;
either:
8 INTRODUCTION TO THE STUDY OP NATURAL MAGIC,
either principle, according to its tendency, the foulfeedswhile in thisfrail body
$
but what further concerns the foul of man in this, and after this, we fhall fully
inveftigate the natural magic ofthe foul, in which we have fully treated every
point of enquiry that has been fuggefted to us by our own imagination, and by
fcientific experiments have proved its divine virtue originally fealed therein by
the Author of its being.
Sufficient it is to return to ourfubje£t relativeto aftrology, efpecially to know
what part of it is necelfary for our ufe, ofwhich we will feleft that which is pure
and to our purpofe, for the underftanding and effecting ofvarious experiments
in the courfe of our works, leaving the tedious calculation of nativities, the
never-ceafing controverfies and cavillations of its profelfors, the dilfenfions
which arife from the various modes ofpradtice all which we leave to the figure-
;
cafting plodder, telling him, by-the-by, that whatever he thinks he can fore-
fhew by infpefting the horofcope of a nativity, by long, tedious, and night-
wearied ftudies and contemplations I fay, whatever he can ffiew refpediing
;
perfonal or national mutations, changes, accidents, &c. &c. all this we know
by a much eafier and readier method and can more comprehenfively, clearly,
;
and intelligibly, fliew and point out, to the very letter, by our Cabal,
which weknow to be true, without deviation, juggling, fallacy, or collufion, or
any kind ofdeceit or impoflure whatfoever which Cabal or fpiritual aftrology
;
we draw from the FountainofKnowledge, in all fimplicity, humility, and truth
;
and we boaft not of ourfelves, but of Him who teaches us through his divine
mercy, by the light of whofe favour we fee into things fpiritual and divine
:
in the pofleffion of which we are fecure amidft the fevereft ftorms of hatred,
malice, pride, envy, hypocrify, levity, bonds, poverty, imprifonment, or any
other outward circumftance we ffiould ftill be rich, want nothing, be fed with
;
delicious meats, and enjoy plentifully all good things necelfary for our fupport
all this we do not vainly boaft of, as figurative, ideal, or chimerical but real,
;
folid, and everlafting, in the which we exult and delight, apd praife his name
for ever and ever : Amen.
All which we publicly declare to the world for the honour of our God, being
at all times ready to do every kindnefs we can to our poor neighbour, and,
P*:
INTRODUCTION TO'THE STUDY OF NATURAL MAGIC. 9
as far as in us lies, to comfort him, fick or affliHed in doing- which we afk no
;
reward : it is fuff—icient to us that we can do it, and that we may be acceptable
to Him who fays “ I am the lig-ht of the world to whom with theFather, and
;
Holy Spirit, be afcribe.d all power, might, majefty, and dominion : Amen.”
To thefaithful and difcreet Student ofhVifdom.
Greeting
Take our inftruHions in all things afk counfel of
;
God, and he will give it offer up the following prayer daily for the illumi-
;
nation of thy underftanding : depend for all things bn God, the firft caufe ; with
whom, by whom, and in whom, are all things : fee thy firft care be to know
thyfelf and then in humility direbt thy prayer as follows.
;
A
Prayer or Oration to God.
Almighty and moft merciful God, we thy fervants approach
with fear and trembling before thee, and in all humility do moft heartily
befeech thee to pardon our manifold and blind tranfgreftions, by us committed
at any time and grant, O, moft merciful Father, for his fake who died upon
;
the crofs, that our minds may be enlightened with the divine radiance of thy
holy wifdom for feeing, O, Lord of might, power, majefty, and dominion,
;
that, by reafon of our grofs and material bodies, we are fcarce apt to receive
thofe fpiritual inftrufifions that we fo earneftly and heartily defire. Open, O,
bleffed Spirit, the fpiritual eye of our foul, that we may be releafed from this
darknefs overfpreading us by the delufions of the outward fenfes, and may
We
perceive and underftand thofe things which are fpiritual. pray thee, oh,
Lord, above all to ftrengthen our fouls and bodies againft our fpiritual
Book I. , B enemies,10 ORATION TO GOD,
enemies, by the blood and righteoufnefs of our blelfed Redeemer, thy Son,
Jelus Chrilt and through him, and in his name, we befeech thee to illuminate
;
the faculties of our fouls, fo that we may clearly and comprehenfively hear
with our ears, and underhand with our hearts and remove far from us all
;
hypocrify', deceitful dealing, profanenefs, inconltancy, and levity fo that
;
we may, in word and a6t, become thy faithful fervants, and hand firm and
unlhaken againft all the attacks of our bodily enemies, and likewife be proof
againft all illufions of evil fpirits, with whom we defire no communication or
intereft but that we may be inltru61:ed in the knowledge of things, natural
;
and celeftial : and as it pleafed thee to bellow on Solomon all wifdom, both
human and divine in the defire of which knowledge he did fo pleafe thy
;
divine majelty, that in a dream, of one night, thou didlt infpire him with all
wifdom and knowledge, which he did wifely prefer before the riches of this
life fo may our defire and prayer be gracioully accepted by thee fo that,
; ;
by a firm dependence on thy word, we may not be led away by the vain and
ridiculous purfuits of worldly pleafures and delights, they not being durable,
nor of any account to our immortal happinefs. Grant us, Lord, power and
llrength of intelle6! to carry on this work, for the honour and glory of thy
holy name, and to the comfort of our neighbour and without defign of hurt
;
or detriment to any, we may proceed in our labours, through Jefus Chrilt, our
"Redeemer Amen.
:
OF NATURAL MAGIC IN GENERAL.
Before we proceed to particulars, it will not be amifs to
fpeak of generals therefore, as an elucidation, we fhall briefly Ihew what
;
fciences we comprehend under the title of Natural Magic and to halten
;
to the point, we lhall regularly proceed from theory to practice therefore,
;
Natural Magic undoubtedly comprehends a knowledge of all Nature, which
we by no means can arrive at but by fearching deeply into her treafury,
which0F NATURAL MAGIC IN GENERAL. 1 1
which is inexhauftibje ; we therefore by long- ftudy, labour, and pradlice,have
found out many valuable fecrets and experiments, which are either unknown,
or are buried in the ig-norant knowledg-e of the prefent age. The v/ife
ancients knew that in Nature the greateft fecrets lay hid, and wonderful a6tive
powers were dormant, unlefs excited by the vigorous faculty of the mind of
man but as, in thefe latter days, men give themfelves almoft wholly up to
;
vice and luxury, fo their underftandingshave become more andmore depraved
;
’till, being fwallowedup in the grofs fenfes, they become totally unfit for divine
contemplations and deep fpeculations in Nature their intelledlual faculty
•,
being drowned in obfcurity and dulnefs, by reafon of their floth, intemper-
ance, or fenfual appetites. The followers of Pythagoras enjoined filence, and
forbade the eating of the flelhof animals the firft, becaufe they were cautious,
;
and aware of the vanity of vain babbling and fruitlefs cavillations : they ftu-
died the power of numbers to the higheft extent they forbade the eating of
;
fielh not fo much on the fcore of tranfmigration, as to keep the body in a
healthful and temperate Hate, free from grofs humours by thefe means they
:
qualified themfelves for fpiritual matters, and attained unto great and ex-
cellent myfteries, and continued in the exercife of charitable arts, and the
pra6tice of all moral virtues yet, feeing theywere Heathens, they attained not
:
unto the high and infpired lights of wifdom and knowledge that was
bellowed on the Apoftles, and others, after the coming of Chrilt but
;
they mortified their lulls, lived temperately, challe, honelt, and virtuous
;
which government is fo contrary to thepra6ticeofmodern Chrillians, that they
live as ifthe blelfed word had come upon the earth to grant them privilege to
fin. However, we will leave Pythagoras and his followers, to hallen to our own
work whereofwe will firlt explain the foundation of Natural Magic, in as
y
clear and intelligible a manner as the fame can be done.\
: ' • _
'
* .
'
•
-
>
; .
*
/
\THE
FIRST PRINCIPLES
of
NATURAL MAGIC.
BOOK THE
FIRST.
CHAP.
I.
NATURAL MAGIC DEFINED OF MAN HIS CREATION DIVINE IMAGE AND OF THE
SPIRITUAL AND MAGICAL VIRTUE OF THE SOUL.
Natural magic Is, as we have faid, a comprehen-
five knowledge of all Nature, by which we fearch out her fecret and occult
operations throughout her vaR and fpacious elaboratory whereby we come
;
to a knowledge of the component parts, qualities, virtues, and fecrets of
mdtals, Hones, plants, and animals but feeing, in the regular order of the
;
creation, man was the work of the lixth day, every thing being prepared for
his vicegerency here on earth, and that it pleafed the omnipotent God, after
he had formed the great world, or macrocofm, and pronounced it good, fo he
created man the exprefs image of himfelf and in man, likewife, an exa6l
;
model of the great world. We thall defcribe the wonderful properties of man,,
in which we may trace in miniature the exa£l refemblance or copy of the
univerfe by which means we fhall come to the more eafy undemanding of
;
whatever we may have to declare concerning the knowledge of the inferior
nature, fuch as animals, plants, metals, and Hones for, by our Hrfl declaring
*,
the occult qualities and properties that are hid in the little world, it will ferve
as a key to the opening of all the treafures and fecrets of the macrocofm, or
great14 NNAATTUURRAALL MMAAGGIICC.. Book
I.
great world therefore, we fhall haften to fpeak of the creation of man, and
:
his divine image likewife of his fall, in confequence of his difobedience
; ;
by which all the train of evils, plagues, difeafes, and miferies, were entailed
upon his pofterity, through the curfe of our Creator, but deprecated by the
mediation ofour blefled Lord, Chrift.
THE CREATION, DISOBEDIENCE, AND FALL OF MAN.
According to the word of God, whjch we take in all thi—ngs for our guide,
in the lft chapter of Genefis, and the 26th verfe, it is faid “ God faid, let
us make man in our image, after our likenefs and let them have dominion
;
over the fifti of the fea, and over the fowl of the air, and over the cattle, and
over all the earth, and over every creeping thing that creepeth upon the
—
earth.” Here is the origin and beginning of our frail human nature hence
;
every foul was created by the very light itfelf, and Fountain of Life, after his
own exprefs image, likewife immortal, in a beautiful and well-formed body,
endued with a moft excellent mind, and dominion or unlimited monarchy
over all Nature, every thing being fubjefted to his rule, or command one
;
creature only being excepted, which was to remain untouched and confecrated,
as it were, to the divine mandate : “ Ofevery tree of the garden thou mayeft
freely eat “ But of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil, thou
fhalt not eat of it for in the day that thou eateft of it, thou fhalt furely die.”
;
Gen. ii. ver. 16. Therefore Adam was formed by the finger of God, which
is the Holy Spirit ; whofe figure or outward form was beautiful and propor-
tionate as an angel in whofe voice (before he finned) every found was the
5
fweetnefs of harmony and mufic had he remained in the ftate of innocency
:
in which he was formed, the weaknefs of mortal man, in his depraved ftate,
would not have been able to bear the virtue and celeftial fhrillnefs of his
voice. But when the deceiver found that man, from the infpiration of God,
had began to fing fo fhrilly, and to repeat the celeftial harmony of the
heavenly country, he counterfeited the engines of craft feeing his wrath
:
againft;
Chap. I. NATURAL MAGIC. 15
againft him was in vain, he was much tormented thereby, and began to think
how he might entangle him into difobedience of the command of his Creator,
whereby he might, as it were, laugh him to fcorn, in derifton of his new crea-
ture, man.
Van Helmont, in his Oriatrike, chap. xcii. fpeaking of the entrance of death
into human nature, &:c., finely touches the fubje6t of the creation, and man’s
difobedience indeed, his ideas fo perfectly coincide with my own, that I have
:
thought fit here to tranfcribe his philofophy, which fo clearly explains the text
of Scripture, with fo much ofthe light of truth on his fide, that it carries along
with it the fureft and moft pofitive convi6tion.
“ Man being effentially created after the image of God, after that, he rafhly
prefumed to generate the image of God out of himfelf not, indeed, by a
;
certain monfter, but by fomething which was fhadowly like himfelf. With the
ravifhment of Eve, he, indeed, generated not the image God like unto that
.
which God would have inimitable, as being divine but in the vital air of the
;
feed he gene^ted difpofitions ; careful at fome time to receive a fenfitive, dif-
curfive, and motive foul from the Father of Light, yet mortal
,
and toperijh
;
yet, neverthelefs, he ordinarily infpires, and ofhis own goodnefs, the fubftantial
fpirit of a mind Ihewing forth his own image : fo that man, in this refpeft,
endeavoured to generate his own image not after the manner of brute beafts,
;
but by the copulation of feeds, which at length fhould obtain, by requeft, a
foulified light from the Creator ; and the which they call a fenfitive foul.
“ For,from thence hath proceeded anothergeneration, conceived after a beaft-
like manner, mortal, and uncapable of eternal life, after the manner of beafts
and bringing forth with pains, and fubjeft to difeafes, and death and fo much
;
the more forrowful, and full ofmifery, by how much thatvery propagation in
our firft parents dared to invert the intent of God.
“
Therefore the .unutterable goodnefs forewarned them that they fhould
not tafte of that tree ; and otherwife he foretold, that the fame day they
fhould die the death, and fhould feel all the root of calamities which accom-
panies death.”
Defervedly, therefore, hath the Lord deprived both our parents of the benefit
of immortality 5 namely, death fucceededfrom a conjugal and brutal copulation :
neither16 NNAATTUURRAALL MMAAGGIICC.. Book I.
neither remained the fpirit of the Lord with man, after that he began to be
flefti.
Further; becaufe that defilement of Eve (hall thenceforth be continued in
the propagation of pofterity, even unto the end of the world, from hence the
fin of the defpifed fatherly admonition, and natural deviation from the right
way, is now among other fins for an impurity, from an inverted, carnal, and
well nigh brutifh generation, and is truly called original fin that is, man
;
being fowed in the pleafure of the concupifcence of the flefh, fliall therefore
always reap a neceffary death in the flefh of fin but, the knowledge ofgood
;
and evil, which God placed in the diffuaded apple, did contain in it a feminary
virtue ofthe concupifcence of the flefh, that is, an occult forbidden conjundfion,
diametrically oppofite to the flate of innocence, which hate was not
a hate of fhipidity becaufe He was he unto whom, before the cor-
;
ruption of Nature, the effences of all living creatures whatfoever were
made known, according to which they were to be namecTfrom their pro-
perty, and at their firft fight to be effentially diftinguifhed : man, therefore,
though eating of the apple, attained a knowledge that he had loft his radical
innocency for, neither before the eating of the apple was he fo dull or ftupi-
;
fied that he knew not, or did not perceive himfelf naked ; but, with the effeft
of fhame and b utal concupifcence, he then firft declared he was naked.
For that the knowledge ofgood and evil ftgnifies nothing but the concu-
pifcence of the flefh, the Apoftle teftifies calling it the law, and defire of fin.
;
For it pleafed the Lord of heaven and earth to infert in the apple an incentive
to concupifcence by which he was able fafely to abftain, by not eating of
;
the apple, therefore diffuaded therefrom for otherwife he had never at any
;
• time been tempted, or ftirred up by his genital members. Therefore the
apple being eaten, man, from an occult and natural property ingrafted in the
fruit, conceived a Juft, and fin became luxurious to him, and from thence was
made an animal feed, which, haftening into the previous or foregoing difpoii-
tions of a fenfitive foul , and undergoing the law of other caufes , reflected
itfelf into the vital fpirit of Adam and, like an ignis-fatuus, prefently receiv-
;
ingf
!
Chap. I. NATURAL MAGIC. 17
ing an archeus or ruling fpirit, and animal idea, it prefently conceivedapower
of propagating an animal and mortal feed, ending into life.
Furthermore, the facred text hath in many places compelled me unto a per-
fe6t pofition, it making Eve an helper like unto Adam ; not, indeed, that the
fhould fupply the name> and room ofa -wife even as Ihe is called, ftraightway
,
after fin, for {he was a virgin in the intent of the Creator, and afterwards filled
with mifery but not, as long as the ftate of purity prefided over inno-
:
cency, did the will of man overcome her for the tranflation of man into
*,
Paradife did forefhew another condition of living than that of a beafl and
;
therefore the eating of the apple doth by a moft chafte name cover the concu-
pifcence oftheJleJh while it contains the “ knowledge of good and evil” in
,
this name, and calls the ignorance thereof the ftateof innocence for, furely,
:
the attainment of that aforefaid knowledge did nourifh a moft hurtful death
;
and an irrevocable deprivation of eternal life : for if man had not tailed the
apple, he had lived void of concupifcence, and offsprings had appeared out of
Eve (a virgin) from the Holy Spirit. ~
But the apple being eaten, “ prefently their eyes were opened,” and Adam
began lultfully to covet copulation with the naked virgin, and defiled her, the
which God had appointed for a naked help unto him. But man prevented the
intention of God by a Itrange generation in the flefh of fin whereupon there
followed the corruption of the former nature, ortheflefh of fin, accompanied by
concupifcence neither doth the text infinuate any other mark of “ the know*
:
ledge ofgood and evilf than that they “ knew themfelves to be naked or,
fpeaking properly, oftheir virginity beingcorrupted, polluted with beftial luft,
and defiled. Indeed, their whole “ knowledge of good and evil” is in-
cluded in their fhame within their privy parts alone and therefore in the 8th
;
of Leviticus, and many places elfe in the Holy Scriptures, the privy parts
themfelves are called by no other etymology than that of fhame for from
5
the copulation of the flefh their eyes were opened, becaufe they then knew
that the good being loft, had brought on them a degenerate nature, fhame-
fulnefs, an inteftine and inevitable obligation of death fent alfo into their
;
pofterity.
Book I. C Alas18 NATURAL MAGIC, Book
I«-
Alas too late, indeed they underftood, by the unwonted novelty and
!
(hamefulnefs of their eoncupifcence, why God had fo lovingly forbade the
eating of the apple. Indeed, the truth being agreeable unto itfelf, doth atteft
the filthinefs of impure Adamical generation for the impurity which had
;
received a contagion from any natural ilfues whatfoever of menflrues or feed,
1 and that by its touching alone is reckoned equal to that which fhould by de-
grees creep on a perfon from a co-touching of dead carcafes, and to be expiated
by the fame ceremonious rite that the text might agreeably denote, that death
began by the eoncupifcence of the flelh lying hid in the fruit forbidden there-
;
fore, alfo, the one only healing medicine, of fo great an impurity contractedby
touching, confifted in wafhing under the fimilitude or likenefs thereof, faith
:
and hope, which in baptifm are poured on us, are ftrengthened.
For as foon as Adam knew that by fratricide the firft born of mortals.,
whom he had begotten in the eoncupifcence of the flelh, had killed his brother,
guiltlefs and righteous as he was and forefeeing the wicked errors of mortals
;
that would come from thence, he likewife perceived his own miferies in
himfelf certainly knowing that all thefe calamities had happened unto him
;
from the fin of eoncupifcence drawn from the apple, which were unavoidably
llfuing on his pofterity, he thought within himfelf that the moll difereet thing
he could do, was hereafter wholly to abflain from his wife, whom he had
violated and therefore he mourned, in chaftity and forrow, a full hundred
;
years hoping that by the merit of that abftinence, and by an oppofition to the
•,
eoncupifcence of the flelh, he Ihould not only appeafe the wrath of the
incenfed Deity, but that he Ihould again return into the former fplendour and
majelty of his primitive innocence and purity But the repentance of one age
.
being finilhed, it is moll probable the myftery of Chrilt’s incarnation was
revealed unto him neither that man ever could hope to return to the bright-
;
nefs of his ancient purity by his own ftrength, and much lefs that himfelf
could reprieve his pofterity from death and that, therefore, marriage was well
•,
pleafing, and was after the fall indulged unto him by God becaufe he
had determined thus to fatisfy his juftice at the fulnefs of times, which Ihould,
to“
Chap. I. NNAATTUURRAALL MMAAGGIICC.. 19
to the glory of his own tiame, and the confufion of Satan, elevate mankind to
a more fublime and eminent ftate ofbleffednefs.
From that time Adam began to know his wife, viz. after he was an hundred
years old, and to fill the earth, by mu—ltiplying according to the ble — fiing once
given him, and the law enjoined him Be fruitful and multiply.” Yet fo,
neverthelefs, that although matrimony, by reafon of the great want of propa-
gation, and otherwife impofiible courfary fucceflion of the primitive divine
generation, be admitted as a facrament of the faithful.
If, therefore, both our firft parents, after the eating of the apple, were
alhamed, they covered only their privy parts therefore that fhame doth pre-
; —
fuppofe, and accufe of fometbing committed againft juftice againft the in-
—
tent of the Creator and againft their own proper nature by confequence,
:
therefore, that Adamical generation was not of the primitive conftitution of
their nature, as neither of the original intent of the Creator therefore, when
;
God foretels that the earth fhall bring forth thiftles and thorns, and that man
fhall gain his bread by the fweat of his brow, they were not execrations, but
admonitions, that thofe fort of things fhould be obvious in the earth and,
— —:
becaufe that beafts Ihould bring forth in pain thould plow in fweat fhould
eat their food with labour and fear, that the earth fhould likewife bring forth
very many things befides the intention of the hufbandman therefore, alfo,
;
that they ought to be nourifhed like unto brute beafts, who had begun to
generate after the manner of brute beafts.
It is likewife told Eve, after her tranfgreflion, that fhe fhould bring forth in
jpain. Therefore, what hath the pain of bringing forth common with the eat-
ing of the apple, unlefs the apple had operated about the concupifcence ofthe
flefh, and by confequence ftirred up copulation and the Creator had intended
;
to diffuade it, by dehorting from the eating of the apple. For, why are the
genital members of women punifhed with pains at child-birth, if the eye in
feeing the apple, the hands in cropping it, and the mouth in eating ofit, have
offended ? for was it not fufficient to have chaftifed the life with death, and the
health with very many difeafes ?— Moreover, why is the womb affliaed, as in
C 2
brutes.20 NATURAL MAGIC. Book
I.
brutes, with the manner of bringing- forth, if the conception granted to beafls
were not forbidden to man ?
After their fall, therefore, their eyes -were opened, and they were ajhamed ;
it denotes and fignifies that, from the lilthinefs of concupifcence, they knew
that the copulation of the fiefh was forbidden in the moft pure innocent chaf-
tity of nature and that they were overfpread with fhame, when, their eyes
;
being opened, their underflandings faw that they had committed filthinefs
moll deteltable.
But on the ferpent and evil fpirit alone was the top and fummit ofthe whole
curfe, even as the privilege of the woman, and the myllerious prerogative of
the blelfing upon the earth, viz. That the woman’s feed Ihould bruife the
head of the ferpent. So that it is not poffible that to bring forth in pain
fhould be a curfe for truly with the fame voice of the Lord is pronounced
;
the blefling of the woman, and victory over the infernal fpirit.
Therefore Adam was created in the polfeffion of immortality. God intend-
ed not that man Ihould be an animal or fenjitive creature, nor be born, con-
ceived, or live as an animal for of truth he was created unto a living foul
; ,
and that after the true image of God therefore he as far differed from the
;
nature of an animal, as an immortal being from a mortal, and as a God-like
creature from a brute.
I am forry that our fchool-men, many of them, wifh, by their arguments
of noife and pride, to draw man into a total animal nature, (nothing more)
drawing (by their logic) the effence of a man elfentially from an animal
nature becaufe, although man afterwards procured death to himfelf and pos-
:
terity, and therefore may feem to be made nearer the nature of animal crea-
tures, yet it flood not in his power to be able to pervert tl^e fpecies of the
divine image even fo as neither was the evil fpirit, of a fpirit, made an ani-
:
mal, although he became nearer unto the nature of an animal, by hatred and
brutal vices. Therefore man remained in his own fpecies wherein he was
created for as often as man is called an animal or fenfitive living creature,
; ,
and is in earnefl thought to be fuch, fo many times the text is falfified which
fays, But the ferpent was more crafty than all the living creatures of the
earth,Chap. I. NATURAL MAGIC.
earth, which the Lord God had made becaufe he fpeaks of the natural craft
and fubtilty of that living and creeping animal. Again, if the pofition be
true, man was not directed into the propagation offeed orflefh, neither did
he afpire unto a fenfitive foul and therefore the fenfible foul of Adamical
;
generation is not of a brutal fpecies, becaufe it was raifed up by a feed which
wanted the original ordination and limitation of any fpecies and fo that, as
;
the fenfitivefoul in man arofe, befides the intent of the Creator and Nature ;
fo it is of no brutal fpecies, neither can it fubfift, unlefs it be continually tied
to the mind from whence it is fupported in its life.
,
Wherefore, while man is of no brutal fpecies, he cannot be an animal in
refpe6t to his mind, and much lefs in refpe£t to his foul, which is of no fpecies.
Therefore know, that neither evil fpirit, nor whole nature alfo, can, by any
means or any way whatever, change the eifence given unto man from his
Creator, and by his foreknowledge determined that he fhould Temain con-
tinually fuch as he was created, although he, in the mean time, hath clothed
himfelf with ftrange properties, as natural unto him from the vice of his own
will for as it is anabfurditytoreckon man glorified among animals, becaufe he
;
is not without fenfe or feeling, fo to be fenfitive does not fhew the insepa-
rable eifence of an animal.
Seeing, therefore, our firft parents had both of them now felt the effect
throughout their whole bodies of the eating of the apple, or concupifcence of
the flefh in their members in Paradife, it fhamed them becaufe their mem-
;
bers, which, before, they could rule at their pleafure, were afterwards moved by
a propet incentive to lull.
Therefore, on the fame day, not only mortality entered through con-
cupifcence, but it prefently after entered into a conceived generation for
;
which they were, the fame day, alfo driven out of Paradife hence followed
:
an adulterous, lafcivious, beaft-like, devilifh generation, and plainly incapable
of entering into the kingdom of God, diametrically oppofite to God’s ordina-
tion by which means death, and the threatened punifhment, corruption be-
•, ,
came infeparable to man and his pofterity.
Therefore,)
22 NATURAL MAGIC. Book
I.
Therefore, original fin was effectively bred from the concupifcence of the
flefh, but occafioned only by the apple being eaten, and the admonition
defpifed but the ftimulative to concupifcence was placed in the diffuaded
:
tree, and that occult luftful property radically inferted and implanted in it.
But when Satan (befides his and the deflowering of the virgin, nothing
hindering of it) faw that man was not taken out of the way, according to the
forewarning, (for he knew not that the Son of God had conftituted himfelf a
furety, before the*Father, for man) he, indeed, looked at the vile, corrupted,
and degenerated nature of man, and faw that a power was withdrawn from him
ofuniting himfelfto the God of infinite majefty, and began greatly to rejoice.
That joy was of fhort duration, for, by and by, he likewife knew that marriage
— —
was ratified by Heaven that the divine goodnefs yet inclined to man and
that Satan’s own fallacies and deceits were thus deceived hence conjecturing
:
that the Son of God was to reftore every defeCt of contagion, and, therefore,
perhaps, to be incarnated. He then put himfelf to work how, or in what
manner, he fliould defile the flock that was to be raifed up by matrimony with
a mortal foul, fo that he might render every conception of God in vain there-
:
fore he ftirred up not only his fratricides, and notorioufly wicked perfons, that
there might be evil abounding at all times but he procured that Atheifm
;
might arife, and that, together with Heathenifm, it might daily increafe,
whereby indeed, if he could not hinder the co-knitting of the immortal mind
with the fenfitive foul, he might, at leaft, by deftroying the law of Nature,
bring man unto a level with himfelfunder infernal puniftiment : but his fpecial
care and defire was to expunge totally the immortal mind out of the flock of
poflerity.
Therefore he fthe Devil ftirs up, to this day, deteftable copulations in
Atheiftical libertines but he faw from thence, that nothing but brutifh or
:
favage monfters proceeded, to be abhorred by the very parents themfelves
;
and that the copulation with women was far more plaufible to men and that
;
by this method the generation of men fhould conftantly continue for he en-
;
deavoured to prevent the hope of reftoring a remnant, that is, to hinder the
incarnation of the Son of God therefore he attempted, by an application of
;
aCtive2
Chap. I. NATURAL MAGre. 23
active things, to frame the feed of man according1 to his own accurfed defire
;
which, when he had found vain and impoflible for him to do, he tried again
whether an imp or witch might not be fru&ified by fodomy and when this
did not fully anfwer his intentions every way, and he faw that of an afs and a
horfe a mule was bred, which was nearer a-kin to his mother than his father
j
likewife that of a coney and dormoufe being the father, a true coney was bred,
being diftintft from his mother, only having a tail like the dormoufe he de-
;
clined thefe feats, and betook himfelf to others worthy, indeed, only of the
fubtile craft of the Prince ofDarhnefs.
Therefore Satan inftituted a connexion of the feed of man with the feed
and in the womb of a junior witch, or forcerefs, that he might exclude the
difpofitions unto an immortal mind from fuch anew, polifhed conception and
:
afterwards came forth an adulterous and lafcivious generation of Faunii, Satyrs,
Gnomes, Nymphs, Sylphs, Driades, Hamodriades, Neriads, Mermaids,
Syrens, Sphynxes, Monfters, &c., uling the conftellations, and difpofing the
feed ofman for fuch like monftrous prodigious generations.
And, feeing the Faunii and Nymphs of the woods were preferred before the
others in beauty, they afterwards generated their offspring amongfl themfelves,
and at length began wedlocks with men, feigning that, by thefe copulations,
they fhould obtain an immortal foul for them and their offspring but this
;
happened through the perfuafions and delufions of Satan to admit thefe mon-
fters to carnal copulation, which the ignorant were eafily perfuaded to and
;
therefore thefe Nymphs are called Succubii although Satan afterwards com-
:
mitted worfe, frequently tranfchanging himfelf, by affuming the perfons of
both Incubii and Succubii, in both fexes but they conceived not a true
j
young by the males, except the Nymphs alone. The which, indeed, feeing
the fons of’ God (that is, men) had now, without diftinCtion, and in many
places, taken to be their wives, God was determined to blot out the whole
race begotten by thefe infernal and deteftable marriages, through a deluge of
waters, that the intent of the evil fpirit might be rendered fruftrate.
Of which monfters before mentioned, I will here give a ftriking example
from Helmont : for he fays, a merchant of iEgina, a countryman of his,24 NATURAL llAGIC, Book I.
failing- various times unto the Canaries, was atked by Helmont for his ferious
judgment about certain creatures, which the mariners frequently brought home
from the mountains, as often as they went, and called them Tude-fquils ;* for
they were dried dead carcaffes, almofl: three-footed, and fo fmall that a boy
might eafily carry one ofthem upon the palm ofhis hand, and they were ofan
exa6t human thape but their whole dead carcafs was clear or tranfparent as
;
any parchment, and their bones flexible like griftles againfi: the fun, alfo,
;
their bowels and inteftine were plainly to be feen which thing I, by Spa-
;
niards there born, knew to be true. I confidered that, to this day, the defiroy-
ed race of the Pygmies were there for the Almighty would render the ex-
;
peHations of the evil fpirit, fupported by the abominable actions of mankind,
void and vain and he has, therefore, manifoldly faved us from the craft and
;
fubtilty of the Devil, unto whom eternal punilhments are due, to his extreme
and perpetual coufufion, unto the everlalting fanftifying of the Divine
Name.
CHAP.
II.
OF THE WONDERS OF NATURAL MAGIC, DISPLAYED IN A VARIETY OF SYMPATHETIC AND
OCCULT OPERATIONS THROUGHOUT THE FAMILIES OF ANIMALS, PLANTS, METALS, AND
STONES, TREATED OF MISCELLANEOUSLY.
THE wonders of Animal Magic we mean fully to difplay under the title of
Magnetifm.- But here we haften to inveftigate by what means, inftruments,
and effects, we muft apply aftives to paflives, to the producing of rare and u — n-
common effects whether by aStions amulets, alligations and fufpenjions
; ,
or rings papers, un61ions, fuffumigations allurements, forceries, enchant-
, ,
ments, images, lights founds, or the like. Therefore, to begin with things
— ,
more Ample : If any one (hall, with an entire new knife, cut afunder a lemon,
ufing words exprefliveof hatred, contumely, or diflike, againfi any individual.
* Stude-quills, or Stew’d quills.
theChap. II. NATURAL MAGIC. 25
N
the abfent party, though, at an unlimited diflance, feels a certain inexpref-
fible and cutting anguifh of the heart, together with a cold chillinefs and
—
failure throughout the body ; likewife of living animals, if a live pigeon be
cut through the heart, it caufes the heart of the party intended to affefit with
—
a fudden failure ; likewife f — ear is induced by fufpending the magical image
of a man by a tingle thread ; alfo death and definition by means fimilar to
thefe and all thefe from a fatal and magical fympathy.
;
Likewife of the virtues of timple animals, as well as manual operations, of
—
which w — e fhall fpeak more anon : The application of hare’s fat pulls out a
thorn ; likewife — any one may cure the tooth-ache with the tlone that is in the
head of the toad alfo, if any one fhall catch a living frog before fun-rife,
and he or fhe fpits in the mouth of the frog, will be cured of an aflhmatic
—
confumption likewife the right or left eye of the fame animal cures blind-
nefs and the fat ofa viper cures a bite of the fame. Black hellebore eafeth
;
the head-ache, being applied to the head, or the powder fnuffed up the nofe
in a moderate quantity. Coral is awell-known prefervative againfl witchcraft
and poifons, which if worn now, in this time, as much round children’s necks
as ufual, would enable them to combat many difeafes which-their tender years
are fubje6led to, and to which, with fafeinations, they often fall a vi6lim.
I know how to compofe coral amulets, or talifmans, which, if fufpended even
by a thread, fhall (God aflifling) prevent all harms and accidents of violence
from fire, or water, or witchcraft, and help them to withfland all their difeafes.
Paracelfus and Helmont both agree, that in the toad, although fo irreverent
to the fight of man, and fo noxious to the touch, and of fuch flrong violent
antipathy to the blood of man, I fay, out of this hatred Divine Providence
hath prepared us a remedy againfl manifold difeafes moll inimical to man’s
nature. The toad hath a natural averfion to man and this fealed image, or
;
idea of hatred, he carries in his head, eyes, and mofl powerfully throughout his
whole body : now that thetoadmaybehighly preparedfor a fympathetic remedy
againfl the plague or other diforders, fuch as the ague, falling, fickneffes, and
various others ; and that the terror ofus, and natural inbred,hatred may the more
flrongly be imprinted andhigherafeend in the toad, we mull hang him up aloft
Book D
I, in—
26 NATURAL MAGIC, Book
I,
#>
in a chimney, by the legs, and fet under him a difli of yellow wax, to receive
whaifoever may come down, or fall from his mouth let him hang in this po-
-,
rtion, in our fight, for three or four days, at leaft till he is dead : now we
muft not omit frequently to be prefent in fight of the animal, fo that his fears
and inbred terror of us, with the ideas of ftrong hatred, may encreafe even
unto death.
So you have a molt powerful remedy in this one toad, for the curing of
forty thoufand perfons infe6ted with the peft or plague.
Van Helmont’s procefs for making a prefervative amulet againft the plague
is as follows :
“ In the month ofJuly, in the decreafe ofthe moon, I took old toads, whofe
eyes abounded with white worms hanging forth into black heads, fo that both
his eyes were totally formed with worms, perhaps fifty in number, thickly
compacted together, their heads hanging out and as oft as any one ofthem at-
;
tempted to get out, the toad, by applying his fore-foot, forbade its utterance.
Thefe toads being hung up, and made to vomit in the manner before men-
tioned, I reduced the infefts and other matters ejected from the toad, with the
waxen difli being added thereto and, the dried carcafs of the toad being re-
;
duced into powder, I formed the whole into troches, with gum-dragon which,
;
being borne about the left breaft, drove fpeedily away all contagion and
5
being faft bound to the place affedted, thoroughly drew out the poifon : and
thefe troches w'ere more potent after they had returned into ufe divers times,
than when new. I found them to be a molt powerful amulet againft the
plague for if the ferpent eateth duft all the days of his life, becaufe he was
;
the inftrument of finning fo the toad eats earth, (which he vomits up) all the
;
days of his life and, according to the Adeptical philofophy, the toad bears
•,
an hatred to man, fo that he infers fome herbs that are ufeful to man with
his poifon, in order for his death. But this difference note between the toad
and the ferpent : the toad, at the fight of man, from a natural quality fealed
in him, called antipathy, conceives a great terror or aftonifliment which ter-
;
ror from man imprints on this animal a natural efficacy againft the images of
the affrighted archeus in man. For, truly, the terror of the toad kills and anni-
hilatesChap. II. NATURAL MAGIC. 27
hilates the ideas of the affrighted archeus in man, becaufe the terror in the
toad is natural, therefore radical.”
For the poifon of the plague is fubdued by the poifon of the toad, not by
an action primarily deftru&ive, but by a fecondary action as the peftilent
;
idea of hatred or terror extinguilh.es the ferment, by whofe mediation the poi-
fon of the plague fubfifts, and proceeds to infebt : for feeing the poifon of the
plague is the produft of the image of the terrified archeus eftablilhed in a fer-
mental, putrified, odour, and mumial air, this coupling ferments the appro-
priate mean, and immediately the fubje6t of the poifon is taken away.
Therefore the oppofition of the amulet formed from the body, &c„, of the
toad, takes away and prevents the baneful and moll horrible effects of the
peftilential poifon and ferment ofthe plague.
Hence it is conjectured that he is an animal ordained by God, that the idea
of his terror being poifonous indeed to himfelf, fhould be to us, and to our
plague, a poifon in terror. Since, therefore, the toad is moft fearful at the
beholding of man, which in himfelf, notwithftanding, forms the terror con-
ceived from man, and alfo the hatred againft man, into an image and aftive
real being, and not confifting only in a confufed apprehenfiori hence it
;
happens that a poifon arifeth in the toad, which kills the peftilent poifon of
terror in man to wit, from whence the archeus waxeth ftrong, he not only
;
perceiving the peftilent idea to be extinguilhed in himfelf but, moreover,
;
becaufe he knoweth that fomething inferior to himfelf is terrified, difmayed,
and doth fly. Again, fo great is the fear of the toad, that if he is placed
directly before thee, and thou doft behold with an intentive furious look, fo
that he cannot avoid thee, for a quarter of an hour, he dies,* being fafcinated
with terror and aftonilhment.
* I have tried this experiment upon the toad, and other reptiles of his nature, and was fatisfied ofthe
truth of thisaffirmation.28 NATURAL MAGIC. Book L
OF THE SERPENT.
Hippocrates, by the ufe of fome parts of this animal, attained to himfelf
divine honours for therewith he cured pefiilence and contagion, confump-
;
tions, and very many other difeafes for he cleanfed the flefh of a viper.
;
The utmoft part ofthetail and head being- cut off, he {tripped off the (kin, cafU
ing- away the bowels and gall he referved of the inteftines only the heart and
;
liver he drew out all the blood, with the vein running down the back-bone
; ;
he bruifed the flefh and the aforefaid bowels with the bones, and dried them in
a warm oven until they could be powdered, which powder he fprinkled on
honey being clarified and boiled, until he knew that the flefhes in boiling
•,
had call afide their virtue, as well in the broth as in the vapours he then add-
;
ed unto this electuary the fpices of his country to cloak the fecret. But
this cure of difeafes by the ferpent contains a great myftery, viz. that as death
crept in by the ferpent of old, itfelf ought to be mitigated by the death of
the ferpent forAdam, being fkilful in the properties of all beafts, was not
;
ignorant alfo that the ferpent was more crafty than other living creatures, and
that the aforefaid balfam, the remedy of death, lay hid in the ferpent where-
;
fore the fpirit of darknefs could not more fafely deceive our firft parents than
under the guileful ferpent’s form for they foolffhly imagined they fhould
;
efcape the death, fo forel — y threatened by God, by the ferpent’s aid.
Amber is an amulet : a piece of red amber worn about one, is a preferva-
tive againft poifons and the peftilenee.
Likewife, a fapphire ftone is as effectual. Oil of amber, or amber dif-
folved in pure fpirit of wine, comforts the womb being difordered : if a fuf-
fumigation of it be made with the warts of the fliank of a horfe, it will cure
many diforders of that region.
The liver and gall of an eel, likewife, being gradually dried and reduced
to powder, and taken in the quantity of a filbert-nut in a glafs of warm
wine, caufes a fpeedy and fafe delivery to women in labour. The liver of a
ferpent likewife effect's the fame.
Rhubarb,;
Chap. II. NATURAL MAGIC. 29
Rhubarb, on account of its violent antipathy to choler, wonderfully purges
the fame. Mufic is a well-known fpecific for curing the bite of a tarantula, or
any venomous fpider likewife, water cures the hydrophobia. Warts are
;
cured by paring off the fame or by burying as many pebbles, fecretly, as
;
the party has warts. The kingr s-evil may be cured by the heart of a toad
—
worn about the neck, firfl being dried. Hippomanes excites luff by the bare
touch, or being fufpended on the party. If any one fhall fpit in the hand with
—
’ which he ftruck, or hurt, another, fo fhall the wound be cured ; likewife, if
any one fhall draw the halter wherewith a malefactor was flain acrofs the
—
throat ofone who hath the quinfey, it certainly cures him in three days ; alfo,
the herb cinque-foil being gathered before fun-rife, one leaf thereof cures the
ague of one day three leaves, cures the tertian and four, the quartan ague.
; ;
Rape feeds, fown with curfings and imprecations, grows the fairer, and thrives
but ifwith praifes, the reverfe. The juice of deadly nightfhade, diftilled, and
given in a proportionate quantity, makes the party imagine almoft whatever
you chufe. The herb nip, being heated in the hand, and afterwards you hold
in your hand the hand of any other party, they fhall never quit you, fo long
as you retain that herb. The herbs arfemart, comfrey, flaxweed, dragon-wort,
adder’s-tongue, being fleeped in cold water, and if for fome time being applied
on a wound, or ulcer, they grow warm, and are buried in a muddy place,
cureth the wound, or fore, to which they were applied. Again, if any one
pluck the leaves of afarabacca, drawing them upwards, they will purge an-
other, who is ignorant of the drawing, by vomit only but if they are wrefted
;
downward to the earth, they purge by ftool. A fapphire, or a ftone that is of
a deep blue colour, if it be rubbed on a tumour, wherein the plague difcovers
itfelf, (before the party is too far gone) and by and by it be removed from the
fick, the abfent jewel attracts all the poifon or contagion therefrom. And thus
much isfufficient to be faid concerning natural occult virtues, whereofwe fpeak
in a mixed and mifcellaneous manner, coming to more diflin6t heads anon.
CHAP..30 NATURAL MAGIC, Book I.
CHAP.
III.
OF AMULETS, CHARMS, AND ENCHANTMENTS.
THE
inftrument of enchanters is a pure, living-, breathing fpirit of the
blood, whereby we bind, or attract, thofe things which we defire or delight in
;
fo that, by an earned: intention of the mind, we take poflelflon of the faculties
in a no lefs potent manner than ftrong wines beguile the reafon and fenfes of
thofe who drink them therefore, to charm, is either to bind with words, in
;
which there is great virtue, as the poet fings
W
“ ords thrice (he fpake, which caus’d, at will, fweet fleep ;
“ Appeas’d the troubledwaves, and roaring deep.”
Indeed, the virtue of man’s words are fo great, that, when pronounced
with a fervent conflancy of the mind, they are able to fubvert Nature, to
caufe earthquakes, dorms, and tempeds. I have, in the country, by only
fpeaking a few words, and ufed fome other things, caufed terrible rains and
claps of thunder. Almod all charms are impotent without words, becaufe
words are the fpeech of the fpeaker, and the image of the thing fignified or
fpokenof; therefore, whatever wonderful effect is intended, let the fame be
performed with the addition of words fignificative of the will or defne of the
operator for words are a kind of occult vehicle of the image conceived or
;
begotten, and fent out of the body by the foul therefore, all the forcible
;
power of the fpirit ought to be breathed out with vehemency, and an arduous
and intent defire and I know how to fpeak, and convey words together, fo as
;
they may be carried onward to the hearer at a vaft diftance, no other body in-
tervening, which thing I have done often. Words are alfo oftentimes delivered
to us, feemingly by others, in our fleep, whereby we feem to talk and con-
verfe but then no vocal converfations are of any effect, except they proceed
;
from fpiritual and occult caufes fuch fpirits have often manifefted Angular
:
things to me, while in fleep, the which, in waking, I have thought nought
of, until conviction of the truth taught me credulity in fuch like matters.
In.
Chap. III. NNAATTUURRAALL MMAAGGIICC.. 31
In the late changeofAdminiftration, I knew, atleaft five days before it actually
terminated, that it would be as I defcribed to a few of my friends. Thefe
things are not alike manifefted to every one only, I believe, to thofe who
;
have long ferioufly attended to contemplations of this abftrufe nature but
;
there are thofe who will fay it is not fo, merely becaufe they themfelves cannot
comprehend fuch things.
However, not to lofe time, we proceed. There are various enchantments,
which I have proved, relative to common occurrences of life, viz. a kind of
binding to that effect which we defire : as to love, or hatred ; or to thofe
things we love, or againft thofe things we hate, in all which there is a magical
fympathy above the power of reafoning therefore, thofe abftrufe matters we
;
feel, are convinced of, and reflect upon, and Hraw them into our ufe. I will
here fet down, while fpeaking of thefe things, a very powerful amulet for the
flopping, immediately, a bloody-flux for the which (with a faith) I dareflay
;
down my life for the fuccefs, and entire cure.
An Amuletfor Flux ofBlood.
—
“ In the b — lood of Adam arofe death in the blood of Chrift death is ex-
tinguiflhed in the fame blood of Chrift I command thee, O, blood, that
“ thou flop fluxing 1”*
In this one godly fuperftition there will be found a ready cheap, eafy
,
remedy for that dreadful diforder the bloody-flux, whereby a poor mifera-
ble wretch will reap more real benefit than in a whole ftiop ofan apothecary’s
drugs. Thefe four letters mrv are a powerful charm, or amulet, againft the
.
common ague likewife, let them be written upon a piece of clean and new
;
vellum, at any timeof the day or night, and they will be found a fpeedy and
certain cure, and much more efficacious than the word Abracadabra : how-
ever*, as that ancient charm is ftill (amongft fome who pretend to cure agues,
&c.) in fome repute, I will here fet down the form and manner of its being
* Let theparty who pronounces thefe words hold the other’s hand.
written32 NATURAL MAGIC, Book I.
written ;* likewife it mud be pronounced, or fpoken, in the fante order as it is
written, with the intent or will of the operator declared at the fame time of
making1
it.
CHAP. IV.
OF UNCTIONS, rillLTEUS, POTIONS, &C. THEIR MAGICAL VIRTUES,
UNGUENTS, or un&ions, collyries, philters, &c., conveying the virtues of
things natural to our fpirits, do multiply, transform, transfigure, and tranfmute
it accordingly ; they alfo tranfpofe thofe virtues, which are in them , into //, fo
that it not only a6ls upon its own body but alfo upon that which is near it,
,
and affe&s that (by vifible rays, charms, and by touching it) with fome
agreeable quality like to itfelf. For, becaufe our fpirit is the pure fubtil,
,
lucid airy and un6tuous vapour of the blood, nothing, therefore, is better
, ,
adapted for collyriums than the like vapour which are more fuitable to our
,
fpirit in fubdance for then, by reafon of their likenefs, they do more dir up,
;
attract, and transform the fpirit. The fame virtue have other ointments, and
confeftions. Hence, by the touch, often plague, dcknefs, faintings, poifoning,
and love, is induced, either by the hands or clothes being anointed and
;
often by kiding, things being held in the mouth, love is likewife excited.
ABRACADABRA
• It is here to be particularly noticed by us, that, informing of a charm, or \
BRACADABRA
amulet, it will be of no effe£l, except the very foul of the operator is ftrongly and \
intenfely exerted and imprefled, as it were, and the image of the idea fealed on the \ RACADABRA
ACADABRA
charm, or amulet for, without this, in vain willbe all the obfervation oftimes, hours, \
;
and conflellations ; therefore, this I have thought fit to mention, once for all, that it may \ CADABRA
be almoft always uppermoft in the mind of the operator, for, without this one thing \ ADABRA
being obferved and noticed, many who form feals, &c., do fall Ihort of the wilhed-for \ DABRA
\ ABRA
effedf.
\ BRA
\ RA
\A
NowChap. IV. NATURAL MAGIC. 33
Now the fight, as it perceives more purely and clearer than the other fenfes,
feals in us the marks of things more acutely, and does, molt of all, and before
all others, agree with our fantaftic fpirit as is apparent in dreams, when things,
;
feen do more often prelent themfelves to us than things heard, or any thing
coming under the other fenfes. Therefore, when collyriums transform the
vifual fpirits, that fpirit eafily affe6ts the imagination, which, being affe&ed
with divers fpecies and forms, tranfmits the fame, by the fame fpirit, unto the
outward fenfe of fight, by which there is formed in it a perception of fuch
fpecies and forms, in that manner, as if it were moved by external objedts,
that there appear to be feen terrible images, fpirits, and the like. There are
fome collyriums which make us fee the imagesoffpirits in the air or elfewhere
, ;
which I can make of the gall of a man and the eyes of a black cat and
, ,
fome other things. The fame is made, likewife, of the blood of a lapwing,
bat, and a goat and if a fmooth Ihining piece of Heel be fmeared over with
;
the juice of mugwort, and be made to fume, it caufes invocated fpirits to
appear. There are fome perfumes, or- fuffumigations and un&ions, which
make men fpeak in their deep, walk, and do thofe things that are done by
men that are awake, and often what, when awake, they cannot, or dare not
do others, again, make men hear horrid or delightful founds, noifes, and
5
the like.
And, in fome meafure, this is the caufe why mad and melancholy men
believe they hear and fee things equally falfe and improbable, falling into molt
grofs and pitiful delufions, fearing where no fear is, and angry where there is
none to contend. Such paflions as thefe we can induce by ?nagical vapours
,
confections , perfumes , collyries, unguents,potions, poifons, lamps, lights , &c. ;
likewife by mirrors, images , enchantments ,. charms, founds and mufic ; alfo by
divers rites obfervations, ceremonies religion, &c„
, ,
Book I. E CHAP.34 NATURAL MAGIC Book l-
CHAP. V.
OF MAGICAL SUSPENSIONS AND ALLIGATIONS SHEWING HOW, AND BY WHAT POWER, THEY
RECEIVE VIRTUE, AND ARE EFFICACIOUS IN NATURAL MAGIC.
WHEN
tie foul of the world, by its virtue, doth make all things (that
are naturally generated, or artificially made) fruitful, by fealing and impreff-
mg on them celeftial virtues for the working of fome wonderful effect, then
things themfelves not only applied by collyry, or fuffume, or ointment, or
any other fuch like way but when they are conveniently bound to, or wrapped
;
up, or fufpended about the neck, or any other way applied, although by ever
fo eafy a contact, they do imprefs their virtue upon us : by thefe alligations,
&c., therefore, the accidents of the body and mind are changed into ficknefs
or health, valour, fear, fadnefs or joy, and the like they render thofe that
;
carry them, gracious, terrible, acceptable, rejected, honoured, beloved, or
hateful and abominable.
Now thefe kinds of pafiions are conceived to be infufed no otherwife than is
manifefi; in the grafting of trees, where the vital life and virtue is communi-
cated from the trunk to the twig engrafted into it, by way of contact and alli-
gation fo in the female palm-tree, when the comes near to the male, her
:
boughs bend to the male, which the gardener feeing, he binds them together
by ropes acrofs, but foon becomes flraight, as if by the continuation of
the rope file had received a propagating virtue from the male. And it is faid,
if a woman takes a needle, and bewray it with dung, and put it up in earth in
which the carcafs of a man has been buried, and carry it about her in a piece
of cloth ufed at a funeral, no man can defile her as long as the carries that.
Now by thefe examples we fee how, by certain alligations ofcertain things,
alfo fufpenfions, or by the moft fimple contafr or continuation of any thread,
we may be able to receive fome virtues thereby but it is neceffary to know
;
the certain rule of magical alligation and fufpenfion and the manner that the
;
art requires is this, viz. that they mull be done under a certain and fuitable
conftellation and they mull be done with wire, or filken threads, or finews
5
ofChap. VI. NATUHAL MAGIC. ,
of certain animals and thofe things that are to be wrapped up, are to be
;
done in the leaves of herbs, or (kins of animals, or membraneous parchments,
&c. For, if you would procure the folary virtue of any thing, this is to b#
wrapped up in bay-leaves, or the fkin of a lion, hung round the neck with
gold, filk, or purple or yellow thread : while the fun reigns in the heavens, fo
fhalt thou be endued with the virtue of that thing. So if a faturnine quality
or thing be defired, thou fhalt in like manner take that thing, while Saturn
reigns, and wrap it up in the (kin of an afs, or in a cloth ufed at a funeral,
efpecially if melancholy or fadnefs is to be induced, and with a fad, or afh,
or leaden, or black fdk or thread, hang it about thy neck ; and fo in the fame
manner we muft proceed with the reft.
CHAP. VI.
OF ANTIPATHIES.
IT is neceffary, in this place, to fpeak of the antipathies ofnatural things ,
feeing it is requifite, as we go on, to have a thorough knowledge of that ob-
ftinate contrariety of Nature, where any thing fhuns its contrary, and drives it,
as it were, out of its prefence. Such antipathy as this has the root rhubarb
againft choler treacle againft poifon thefapphire Jlone againji hot biles
; ; ,
feverifh heats, and difeafes of the eyes the amethyji againft drunkennefs
; ;
the jafper againft the bloody-flux and offenfive imaginations the emerald,
;
and agnus cafus againft luft achates or agates againft poifon piony againft
; , , ;
the falling ficknefs coral againft the ebullition of black choler, and pains of
;
the ftomach the topaz againft fpiritual heats, fuch as are covetoufnefs, luft,
;
and all manner of love exceffes. The fame antipathy is there, alfo, of pif-
mires againft the herb organ, and the wing of a bat, and the heart of a lap-
wing, from the prefence of which they fly. Alfo, the organ is contrary to a
certain poifonous fly which cannot refill the fun, and refills falamanders, and
loaths cabbage with fuch a deadly hatred that they cannot endure each other.
E 2 So36 NATURAL MAGIC. Book I.
So they fay cucumbers hate oil. And the gall of a crow makes even men
A
fearful, and drives them from the place wherein it is placed. diamond dis-
agrees with a loadjione ; that being prefent, it buffers no iron to be drawn to it.
Sheep avoid frog-parfley as a deadly thing and, what is more wonderful, Na-
;
ture hath depitrtured the Sign of this antipathy upon the livers of (heep, in
which the very figure of frog-parfley doth naturally appear. Again, goats
hate garden-bafil, as if there was nothing more pernicious. And, amongfi
animals, mice and weafels difagree fo a lhard is of a contrary nature to a
;
fcorpion, and induces great terror to the fcorpion writh its very fight, and they
are therefore killed with the oil of them which oil will likewife cure the
;
wounds made by fcorpions. There is a great enmity between Scorpions and
mice ; therefore.if a moufe be applied to the bite of a fcorpion, he cures it.
Nothing is fo much an enemy to fnakes as crabs and if fvvine be hurt by
;
them, they are cured by crabs the fun, alfo, being in Cancer, Serpents are
;
tormented. Alfo, the fcorpion and crocodile kill one another and if the
;
bird ibis does but touch a crocodile with one of his feathers, he makes him un-
moveable. The bird called a buftard flies away at the fight of a horfe and
;
a hart at the fight of a ram, or a viper. An elephant trembles at the hearing
of the grunting of a hog fo doth a lion at the crowing of a cock and a
; ;
panther will not touch them that are anointed with the fat of a hen, efpecially
if garlick has been put into it. There is alfo an enmity between foxes and
fwans bulls and jackdaws. And Some birds are at a perpetual variance, as
•,
daws and owls kites and crows turtle and ring-tail egepis and eagles
; ; ; ;
alfo, harts and dragons. Amongfi: water animals, there is q great antipathy
between dolphins and whirlpools the mullet and pike lamprey and conger
; ; ;
pourcontrel and lobfter, which latter, but feeing the former, is nearly firuck
dead with fear but the lobfter tears the conger. The civet-cat cannot refill
;
the panther and if the fkins of both be hung up againft each other, the fkin
5
or hairs of the panther will fall off. Apollo fays, in his hieroglyphics, if
any one be girt about with the fkin of a civet-cat, he may pafs fafe through
his enemies. The lamb flies from the wolf and if the tail, fkin, or head of
;
lupus be hung up in the fheeps’-cot, they cannot eat their meat for very fear.
AndChap. VII. NATURAL MAGIC. 37
And Pliny mentions the bird called the marlin,that breaks the eggsofthe crow,
whofe young are annoyed by the fox that (he alfo will pinch the whelps of
3
the fox, and the fox likewife, which, when the crow fees, they help the fox
againfl her as again!! a common enemy. The linnet lives in, and eats thir-
ties yet !he hates the afs, becaufe he eats the thirties and flowers of them.
3
There isTo great an enmity between the little bird called efalon and the afs,
that their blood will not mix and that, at the rtmple braying of the afs, both
3
the efalon’s eggs and young perirti together. There is, alfo, a total antipathy
of the olive-tree to the harlot that, if lhe plant it, it will neither thrive nor
5
profper, but wither. A lion fears lighted torches, and is tamed by nothing
fooner. The wolf fears not fword or fpear, but a ftone by the throwing of
3
which a wound being made, worms breed in the wolf. A horfe fears a camel
fo much that he cannot endure the picture of that heart. An elephant, when
he rages, is quieted by feeing a cock. A fnake is afraid of a naked man, but
purfues one clothed. A mad bull is tamed by being tied to a fig-tree. Am-
ber attracts all things to it but garden-bafil, and things fmeared with oil, be-
tween which there is a natural antipathy.
CHAP.
VII.
OF THE OCCULT VIRTUES OF THINGS WHICH ARE INHERENT IN THEM ONLY IN THEIR
LIFE-TIME, AND SUCH AS REMAIN IN THEM EVEN AFTER DEATH.
IT is expedient for us to know that there are fome things which retain virtue
only while they are living, others even after death. So in the cholic, if a live
duck be applied to the belly, it takes away the pain, and the duck dies. If
you take the heart out of any animal, and, while it is warm, bind it to one
that has a quartan fever, it drives it away. So if any one fhall fwallow the
heart of a lapwing, fwallow, weafel, or a mole, while it is yet living and
warm with natural heat, it improves his mtelle6t, and helps him to remember,
—
underftand, and foretel things to come. Hence this general rule, that what-
ever38 NATURAL MAGIC. Book
I.
ever thing's are taken for magical ufes from animals, whether they are (tones,
members, hair, excrements, nails, or any thing elfe, they mult be taken
from thofe animals while they are yet alive, and, if it is poflible, that they
may live after—wards. If you take the tongue of a frog, you put the frog into
water again and Democritus writes, that if any one (hall take out the
;
tongue of a water-frog, no other part of the animal flicking to it, and lay it
upon the place where the heart beats of a womin, die is compelled, againft
her will, to anfwer whatfoever you fhall afk of her. Alfo, take the eyes of a
frog, which mull be extracted before fun-rife, and bound to the Tick party, and
the frog to be let go again blind into the water, the party fhall be cured of a
tertian ague alfo, the fame will, being bound with the flefh of a nightingale
;
in the fkin of a hart, keep a perfon always wakeful without fleeping. Alfo,
the roe of the fork fifli being bound to the navel, is faid to caufe women an
eafy child-birth, if it be taken from it alive, and the fifh put into the fea
again. So the right eye of a ferpent being applied to the forenefs of eyes,
cures the fame, if the ferpent be let go alive. So, likewife, the tooth of a
mole, being taken out alive, and afterwards let go, cures the tooth-ache and
;
dogs will never bark at thofe who have the tail of a weafel that has efcaped.
Democritus fays, that if the tongue of the cameleon be taken alive, it con-
duces to good fuccefs in trials, and likewife to women in labour but it mufl
be hung up on fome part of the outfide ofthe houfe, otherwife, ifbrought into
the houfe, it might be molt dangerous.
There are very many properties that remain after death and thefe are things
;
in which the idea of the matter is lefs fwallowed up, according to Plato in
,
them : even af — ter death, that which is immortal in them will work fome won-
derful things : as in the (kins we have mentioned offeveral wild beads, which
will corrode and eat one another after death alfo, a drum made of the
;
rocket-fifh drives away all creeping things at what diftance foever the found
of it is heard *, and the firings of an inflrument made of the guts of a wolf,
and being drained upon a harp or lute, with drings made of fheep-guts, will
make no harmony
.
CHAP.Chap. VIII. NATURAL MAGIC. 39
CHAP. VIII.
OF THE WONDERFUL VIRTUES OF SOME KINDS OF PRECIOUS STONES.
IT is a common opinion of magicians, that ftones inherit great virtues,
which they receive through the fpheres and a6tivity of the celeftial influences,
by the medium of the foul or fpirit of the world. Authors very much dif-
agree in refpe6t of the probability of their actually having fuch virtues in
potentia, fome debating warmly againft any occult or fecret virtue lying hid
in them others, as warmly, fhewing the caufes and effects of thefe fympa-
;
thetic properties. However, to leave thefe trifling arguments to thofe who
love cavil and contentions better than I do, and, as I have neither leifure nor
inclination to enter the lifts with fophifts, and tongue-philofophers I fay, that
;
thefe occult virtues are difpofed throughout the animal, vegetable, and mineral
kingdoms, by feeds, or ideas originally emanating from the Divine mind, and
through fuperceleftial fpirits and intelligence always operating, according to
their proper offices and governments allotted them which virtues are infufed,
;
as we before faid, through the medium of the Univerfal Spirit, asby a general
andmanifeflfympathyand antipathy eftablifhed inthe law ofNature. Amongft
a variety of examples, the loadflone is one moft remarkable proof of the
fympathy and antipathy we fpeak of. However to haften to the point.
Amongft ftones, thofe which refemble the rays of the fun by their golden
fparklings, (as does the glittering ftone aetites) prevent the falling-fick-
nefs and poifons, ifworn on the finger To the ftone which is called oculisfolis,
;
or eye of the fun, being in figure like to the apple of the eye, from which
fhines forth a ray, comforts the brain, and ftrengthens fight the carbuncle,
;
which fhines by night, hath a virtue againft all airy and vaporous poifons
;
the chryfolite ftone, of a light green colour, when held againft the fun, there
fhines in it a ray like a ftar of gold this is Angularly good for the lungs,
;
and cures afthmatical complaints and if it be bored through, and the hollow
;
filled with the mane of an afs, and bound to the left arm, it chafes away all
foolifh and idle imaginations and melancholy fears, and drives away folly.
The40 NATURAL MAGIC. Book I.
The ftone called iris, which is like cryftai in colour, being- found with fix
corners, when held in the Ihade, and the fun fuffered to Ihine through it, re-
prefents a natural rainbow in the air. The Hone heliotropium, green, like a
jafper or emerald, befet with red fpecks, makes the wearer conftant, renown-
ed, and famous, and conduces to long life there is, likewife, another wonderful
;
property in this ftone, and that is, that it fo dazzles the eyes of men, that it
caufes the bearer to be invifible but then there mull be applied to it the herb
;
bearing- the fame name, viz. heliotropium, or the fun-flower and thefekind of
;
virtues Albertus Magnus, and William of Paris, mention in their writings.
The jacinth alfo poflefles virtue from the fun againtt poifons, peftilences, and
pefliferous vapours likewife it renders the bearer pleafant and acceptable
; \
conduces, alfo, to gain money being- Amply held in the mouth, it wonder-
;
fully cheers the heart, andftrengthens the mind. Then thereis the pyrophilus, of
a red mixture, which Albertus Magnus reports that zTfculapius makes mention
of in one of his epiftles to Oftavius Csefar, faying, “ There is a certain poi-
fon, fo intenfely cold, which preferves the heart of man, being taken out, from
burning fo that if it be put into the lire for any time, it is turned into a
;
ftone, which ftone is calledpyrophilus it poflefles a wonderful virtue againft
poifon and it infallibly renders the wearer thereof renowned and dreadful to
;
iiis enemies. Apollonius is reported to have found a ftone called pantaura,
(which will attract other ftones, as the loadftone does iron) molt powerful
againft all poifons : it is fpotted like the panther, and therefore fome na-
turalifts have given this ftone the name of pantherus : Aaron calls it evan-
thum and fome, on account of its variety, call it pantochras.
*,
CHAP.Chap. IX. NATURAL MAGIC. 41
CHAP. IX.
OF THE MIXTURES OF NATURAL THINGS ONE WITH ANOTHER, AND THE PRODUCING OF
MONSTROUS ANIMALS, BY THE APPLICATION OF NATURAL MAGIC.
MAGICIANS, ftudents, and obfervers of the operations of Nature, know
how, by the application of a6tive forms to a matter fitly difpofed, and made,
as it were, a proper recipient, to effedt many wondeiful and uncommon thing's
that feem ftrange, and above Nature, by gathering this and that thing bene-
ficial and conducive to that effect which we defire ; however, it is evident that
all the powers and virtues of the inferior bodies are not found comprehended
in any one fingle thing, but are difperfed amongft many of the compounds
here amongft us wherefore it is neceffary, if there be a hundred virtues of
;
the fun difperfed through fo many animals, plants, metals, or ftones, we
fhould gather all thefe together, and bring them all into one form, in which
we fhall fee all the faid virtues, being united, contained. Now there is a
double virtue in commixing : one, viz. which was once planted in its parts,
and is celeftial ; the other is obtained by a certain artificial mixture of things,
mixed amongft themfelves, according to a due proportion, fueh as agree with
the heavens under a certain conftellation and this virtue defcends by acertain
;
fimilitude or likenefs that is in things amongft themfelves, by which they are
drawn or attracted towards their fuperiors, and as much as the following do by
degrees correfpond with them that go before, where the patient is fitly applied
to its agent. So from a certain compofition of herbs vapours and fuch like,
, ,
made according to the rules of Natural and Celeftial Magic, there refults a
certain common form of which we fhall deliver the true and infallible rules
;
and experiments in our Second Book, where we have written exprefsly on the
fame.
We
ought, likewife, to underftand that by how much more noble and ex-
cellent the form of any thing is, by fo much the more it is prone, and apt to
receive, and powerful to adt. Then the virtue of things do indeed become
wonderful ; viz. when they are applied to matters, mixed and prepared in fit
S°0K I* F feafons42 NATURAL MAGIC.
feafons to give them life, by procuring life for them from the ftars, our own
fpirit powerfully co-operating therewith for there is fo great a power in pre-
;
pared matters, which we fee do then receive life, when a perfefl mixture of
qualities do break the former contrariety for fo much the more perfeft life
;
things receive, by as much the temper and compofitiOn is free from contrariety.
Now
the heavens, as a prevailing caufe, do, from the beginning of every
thing, (to be generated by the concoftion and perfe£t digeftion of the matter)
together with life, bellow celeftial influences and wonderful gifts, according
to the capacity that is in that life and fenfible foul to receive more noble and
fublime virtues. For the celeftial virtue otherwife lies afleep, as fulphur kept
from flame but in living bodies it doth always burn, as kindled fulphur,
;
which, by its vapour, fills all the places that are near.
There is a book called, “ A Book of the Laws of Pluto,” which fpeaks of
monftrous generations, which are not produced according to the lawsofNature.
Of thefe things which follow we know to be true viz. of worms are generated
;
gnats of a horfe, wafps of a calf and ox, bees. Take a living crab, his
; ;
legs being broken off, and he buried under the earth, a fcorpion is produced.
If a duck be dried into powder, and put into water, frogs are foon gene-
rated but if he be baked in a pie, and cut into pieces, and be put in a moift
;
place under ground, toads are generated. Of the herb garden-bafil, bruifed,
and put between two ftones, are generated fcorpions. Of the hairs of a men-
itruous woman, put under dung, are bred ferpents and the hair of a horfe’s
j
tail, put into water, receives life, and is turned into a moft pernicious worm.
And there is an art wherewith a hen, fitting upon eggs, may be generated
the form of a man, which I myfelf know how to do, and which magicians
call the mandrake, and it hath in it wonderful virtues.
You muft, therefore, know which and what kind of matters are either of
art or nature, begun or perfected, or compounded of more things, and what
celeftial influences they are able to receive. For a congruity ofnatural things
is fufficient for the receiving of influence from celeftial becaufe, nothing hin-
dering, the celeftials fend forth their light upon inferiors they fu»ffer no matter
;
to be deftitute of their virtue, Wherefore as much matter as is perfe£t and;
Chap. X. NATURAL MAGIC. 43
pure is, as we before faid, fitted to receive celeftial influences for that is the
;
binding and continuing of the matter of the foul to the world, which doth
daily flow in upon things natural, and all things which Nature hathprepared
,
that it is impoflible that a prepared matter thould not receive life, or a more
noble form.
CHAP. X.
OF THE ART OF FASCINATION, BINPING, SORCERIES, MAGICAL CONFECTIONS, LIGHTS, CAN-
DLES, LAMPS, &C. &C. BEING -THE CONCLUSION OF THE NATURAL MAGIC.*
;
WE
have fo far fpoken concerning thegreat virtues, and wonderful efficacy,
of natural things it remains now that we fpeak of a wonderful power and
;
faculty of fafcination or, more properly, a magical and occult binding of
; —
men into love or hatred, ficknefs or health ; alfo the binding of thieves, that
they cannot fteal in any place or to bind them that they cannot remove,
; —
from whence they may — be deteHed ; the binding of merchants, that they
cannot buy — nor fell *, the binding of an army, that they cannot pafs over
any bounds ; the binding of fhips, fo that no — wind, though ever fo firong,
fhall be able to carry them out of that harbour ; the bind — ing of a mill, that
it cannot, by any means whatfoever, be turned to work ; the binding — of a
ciftern, or fountain, that the water cannot be drawn up out of them the
;
binding of the ground, fo that nothing w — ill bring forth fruit, or flourifh in it
alfo, that nothing can be built upon it ; the binding of fire, that, th — ough it
be ever fo ftrong, it fhall burn no combuftible thing that is put to it ; — alfo,
the binding of lightnings and tempefts, — that they fhall do no hurt ; the
binding of dogs, that they cannot bark ; alfo, the binding of birds and wild
beafts, that they fhall not be able to run or fly away and things fimilar to
*,
* The latterpart of this Chapter ferves asa rule tobe obfervedin the corapofitionof all kindsofmixed
experiments ; and it is as appropriate to the materialscollefted for talifmans, feals, &c. treated of in our
Celeftia) Magic, Book II, F. B.
F 2 thefe.
i44 NATURAL MAGIC. Book L
thefe, which are hardly creditable, yet known by experience. Now how
it
is that thefe kind of binding's are made and brought to pafs, we mutt know.
They are thus done : by forceries, collyries, unguents, potions, binding to
and hanging up of talifmans, by charms, incantations, ftrong imaginations,
affections, paffions, images, characters, enchantments, imprecations, lights,
and by founds, numbers, words, names, invocations, fwearings, conjurations,
eonfecrations, and the like.
OF SORCERIES.
The force of forceries are, no doubt, very powerful indeed they are able
;
to confound, fubvert, confume, and change all inferior things likewife there
;
are forceries by which we can fufpend the faculties of men and beafts. Now,
as we have promifed, we will fhew what fome of thefe kind of forceries are,
that, by the example of thefe, there may be a way opened for the whole
fubjeCt of them. Of thefe, the firft is menftruous blood, which, how much
—
power it has in forcery, we will now confider : Firft, if it comes over new
wine, it will turn it four and if it does but touch a vine, it will fpoil it for
;
ever and, by its very touch, it renders all plants and trees barren, and thofe
;
newly fet, die it burns up all the herbs in the garden, and makes fruit fall
;
from trees it makes dim the brightnefs of a looking-glafs, dulls the edges of
;
knives and razors, dims the beauty of polilhed ivory, and makes iron rufty it
5
likewife makes brafs rufty, and to fmell very ftrong by the tafte, it makes
;
dogs run mad, and, being thus mad, if they once bite any one, that wound
is incurable ; it deftroys whole hives of bees, and drives them away, ifit does
but touch them it makes linen black that is boiled with it it makes mares
; ;
caft their foals by touching them with it, and women mifcarry it makes
$
affes barren if they eat of the corn touched by it. The afhes of menftruous
clothes caft upon purple garments, that are to be wafhed, change their colour,
and likewife take away the colour of flowers. It alfo drives away tertian
and quartan agues, if it be put into the wool of a black ram, and tied up in a
filverChap. X. NATURAL MAGIC. 45
filver bracelet as alfo if the foies of the patient’s feet be anointed therewith,
;
and efpecially if it be done by the woman herfelf, the patient not knowing
what the ufes. It likewife cures the falling ficknefs ; but molt efpecially it
cures them that are afraid of water or drink after they are bitten by a mad
dog, if only a menftruous cloth be put under the cup. Likewife, if a men-
llruous woman fhall walk naked, before fun-rife, in a field of handing corn,
all hurtful things periih but if after fun-rife, the corn withers alfo, they are
^ ;
able to expel hail, rain, thunders, and lightnings more of which Pliny
5
mentions. Know this, that if they happen at the decreafe of the moon, they
are a much greater poifon than in the increafe, and yet much greater if they
happen between the decreafe and change but if they happen in the eclipfe of
;
the fun or moon, they are a moll incurable and violent poifon. But they are
of the greateft force when they happen in the firft years of the virginity, for
then ifthey but touch the door-pofts of a houfe, no mifchief can take effect in
And fomefay that the threads ofany garment touched therewith cannot be
it.
burnt, and if they are call into a fire, it will fpread no farther. Alfo it is
noted, that the root of piony being given with caftor, and fmeared over with
a menftruous cloth, it certainly cureth the falling ficknefs.
Again,let the ftomach of a hartbe roafted, and to it beput a perfume made
with a menftruous cloth it will maK&crofs-bows ufelefs for the killing of any
;
game. The hairs of a menftruous woman, put under dung, breeds ferpents
;
and if they are burnt, will drive away ferpents with the fume. So great and
powerful a poifon is in them, that they are a poifon to poifonous creatures.
We next come to fpeak of hippomanes, which, amongft foreeries, are not
accounted the leaft : and this is a little venomous piece of flelh, the fize of a
fig, and black, which is in the forehead of a colt newly foaled, which, unlefs
the mare herfelf doth prefently eat, Ihe will hardly ever love her foies, or let
them fuck ; and this is a moft powerful philter to caufe love, if it be pow-
dered, and drank in a cup with the blood ofhim that is in love fuch,a potion
was given by Medea to Jafon.
There is another forcery which is called hippomanes, viz. a venomous liquor
iffuing out of the (hare of a mare at the time the lulls after the lior'fe. The
civet-46 NATURAL MAGIC. Book
I.
civet-cat, alfo, abounds with forceries for the polls of a door being1 touched
;
with her blood, the arts of jugglers and forcerers are fo invalid that evil fpirits
—
can by no means be called up, or compelled to talk with them : this isPliny’s
report. Alfo, thofe that are anointed with the oil of her left foot, being
boiled with the allies of the ancle bone of the fame and the blood of a weafel,
lhall become odious to all. The fame, alfo, is to be done with the eye being
decoded. If any one hath a little of the firait-gut of this animal about him,
and it is bound to the left arm, it is a charm ; that if he does but look upon a
woman, it will caufe her to follow him at all opportunities and the Ikin of
;
this animal’s forehead withftands witchcraft.
We next come to fpeak of the blood of a bafililk, which magicians call
—
the blood of Saturn. This procures (by its virtue) for him that carries it
about him, good fuccefs of petitions from great men likewife makes him
;
amazingly fuccefsful in the cure of difeafes, and the grant of any privilege.
They fay, alfo, that a tike, if it be taken out of the left ear of a dog, and it
be altogether black, if the Tick perfon lhall anfwer him that brought it in,
and who, Handing at his feet, lhall alk him concerning his difeafe, there is
certain hope of life and that he lhall die if he make him no anfwer. They
;
fay, alfo, that a Hone bitten by a mad dog caufes difcord, if it be put into
drinks and if any one lhall put the tongue of a dog, dried, into his Ihoe, or
;
fome of the powder, no dog is able to bark at him who hath it and more
;
powerful this, ifthe herb hound’s-tongue beput with it. And the membrane of
the fecundine of a bitch does the fame likewife, dogs will not bark at him
;
who hath the heart of a dog in his pocket.
The red toad (Pliny fays) living in briers and brambles, is full of forceries,
and is capable of wonderful things : there is a little bone in his leftfide, which
being call into cold water, makes it prefently hot by which, alfo, the rage of
;
dogs are reftrained, and their love procured, if it be put in their drink, making
them faithful and ferviceable ifit be bound to a woman, it flirs up lull. On
;
the contrary, the bone which is on the right fide makes hot water cold, and
it binds it fo that no heat can make 4t hot while it there remains. It is a cer-
tain cure for quartans, if it be bound to the fick in a fnake’s Ikin ; and like-
wifeChap. X. NATURAL MAGIC. 47
wife cures all fevers, the St. Anthony’s fire, and reftrains love and luft. And
the fpleen and heart are effectual antidotes againfl: the poifons of the faid toad.
Thus much Pliny wiites.
Alfo it is faid, that the fword with which a man is flain hath wonderful
power for ifthe fnaffle of a bridle, or bit, or fpurs, be made of it, with thefe
;
a horfe ever fo wild is tamed, and made gentle and obedient. They fay, if
we dip a fword, with which any one was beheaded, in wine, that it cures the
quartan, the fick being given to drink of it. There is a liquor made, by
which men are made as raging and furious as a bear, imagining themfelves in
every refpe£t to be changed into one and this is done by dilfolving or boiling
;
the brains and heart of that animal in new wine, and giving any one to drink
out of a fkull, and, while the force of the draught operates, he will fancy
every living creature to be a bear like to himfelf neither can any thing divert
;
or cure him till the fumes and virtue of the liquor are entirely expended, no
other diftemper being perceivable in him.
The molt certain cure of-a violent head-ache, is to take any herb growing
upon the top of the head of an image the fame being bound, or hung about
;
one with a red thread, it will foon allay the violent pain thereof.
OF MAGICAL LIGHTS, CANDLES, LAMPS, &c.
There are made, artificially, fome kinds of lamps, torches, candles, and
the like, of fome certain and appropriate materials and liquors opportunely
gathered and collected for this purpofe, which, when they are lighted and fhine
alone, produce fome wonderful effects. There is a poifon from mares, after
copulation, which, being lighted in torches compofed of their fat and mar-
row, doth reprefent on the walls a monftrous deformity of horfes5 heads, which
thing is both eafy and pleafant to do : the like may be done of alfes and fiies.
And the ikin of a ferpent or fnake, lighted in a green lamp, makes the images
of the fame to appear ; and grapes produce the fame effect, if, when they are)
4'S NATURAL MAGIC, Book I,
in their flowers, you (hall take a phial, and bind it to them, filled with oil,
and fliall let that remain fo till they are ripe, and then the oil be lighted in a
lamp, you fliall fee a prodigious quantity of grapes and the fame in other
;
fruits. If centaury be mixed with honey and the blood of a lapwing, and be
put in a lamp, they that hand about will be of a gigantic fiature and if it
;
be lighted in a clear evening, the liars will feem fcattered about.
The ink of the cuttle-fifli being put into a lamp, makes Blackamoors appear.
So, alfo, a candle made of fome faturnine things, fuch as man’s fat and mar-
row, the fat of a black cat, with the brains of a crow or raven, which being-
extinguifhed in the mouth of a man lately dead, will afterwards, as often as it
fhines alone, bring great horror and fear upon the fpedlators about it.
Of fuch like torches candies, lamps, &c., (of which we fliall fpeak further
,
in our Book of Magnetifm and Mummies Hermes fpeaks largely of alfo
;
Plato and Chyrannides and, of the later writers, Albertus Magnus makes
;
particular mention of the truth and efficacy of thefe, in a treatife on thefe
particular things relative to lights, &c. '
OF THE ART OF FASCINATION, OR BINDING BY TIIE LOOK
OR SIGHT.
We
call fafcination a binding, becaufe it is effected by a look, glance, orob-
fervation, in which we take pofleffion of the fpirit, and overpower the fame, of
thofe we mean to fafcinate or fufpend for it comes through the eyes, and the
;
inflrument by which we fafcinate or bind is a certain, pure, lucid, fubtil fpirit,
generated out of the ferment of the purer blood by the heat of the heart, and
the firm, determined, and ardent will of the foul which directs it to the objedl
previously difpofed to be fafeinated. This doth always fend forth by the eyes
rays or beams, carrying with them a pure fubtil fpirit or vapour into the eye or
blood of him or her that is oppofite. So the eye, being opened and intent
m>o.n any one with a flrong imagination, doth dart its beams, which are the
vehicle.
Chap. X. - NATURAL MAGIC. 49
vehicle of the fpirit, into whatever we will affedl or bind, which fpirit finking-
the eye of them who are fafcinated, being flirred up in the heart and foul of
him that fends them forth, and poffeffing the brealt of them who are flruck,
wounds their hearts, infedts their fpirits, and overpowers them.
Know, likewife, that in witches, thofe are moft bewitched, who, with often,
looking, diredt the edge of their fight to the edge of the fight of thofe who
bewitch or fafcinate them whence arofe the faying of “ Evil eyes, &c.”
;
For when their eyes are reciprocally bent one upon the other, and are joined
beams to beams, and lights to lights, then the fpirit of the one is joined to
the fpirit of the other, and then are flrong ligations made and moft violent
;
love is ftirred up, only with a fudden looking on, as it were, with the darting
a look, or piercing into the very inmoft of the heart, whence the fpirit and
amorous blood, being thus wounded, are carried forth upon the lover and
enchanter no otherwife than the fpirit and the blood of him that is murdered
;
is upon the murderer, who, if Handing near the body killed, the blood flows
afrelh, which thing has been tried by repeated experiments.
So great power is there in fafcination that many uncommon and wonderful
things are thereby effected, efpecially when the vapours of the eyes are fub-
fervient to the affection therefore collyries, ointments, alligations, &c. are
;
ufed to affedt and corroborate the fpirit in this or that manner to induce
:
love, they ufe venereal collyriums, as hippomanes, blood of doves, &rc. To
induce fear, they ufe martial collyriums., as the eyes of wolves, bear’s fat,
and the civet-cat. To procure mifery, or ficknefs, they ufe faturnine, and
fo on.
Thus much we have thought proper to fpeak concerning Natural Magic,
in which we have, as it may be faid, only opened the firft chamber of Nature’s
ftorehoufe ; indeed we Jhould have hiferted many more things here , but as
they fall more properly under the heads of Magnet ifm Mummy, &c., to
,
which we refer the reader, we fhall take our leave of the reader for the pre-
fent, that we may give him time to breathe, likewife to digeft what he has
.
here feafted upon and, while he is preparing to enter the unlocked chambers
;
G
Book I. of50 NATURAL MAGIC. Book I,
of Magic and Nature, we will procure him a rich fervice of moft delicious
meats, fit for the hungry and thirfty traveller through the vaft labyrinths of
wifdom and true fcience.
END OF THE NATURAL MAGIC.
THE
Author having, under the title of Natural Magic, colle6ied and ar-
ranged every thing that was curious, fcarce, and valuable, as well his own
experiments, as thofe in which he has been indefatigable in gathering from the
fcience and practice of Magical Authors, and thofe the moll ancient and ab-
ftrufe, as may be feen in the lift at the end of the Book, where he has put
down the names of the authors, from which he has tranilated many things
that were never yet publilhed in the Englifh language, particularly Hemes,
Tritemius Paracelfus Bacon Dee Porta Agrippa, &c. &c. &c. from
, , , , , ;
whom he has not been afhamed to borrow what he thought and knew would
be valuable and gratifying to the fons of Wifdom, in addition to many other
rare and uncommon experiments relative to this art.
THE;
THE
TRUE SECRET OF THE PHILOSOPHERS’ STONE
5
OB,
JEWEL OF ALCHYMY,
WHEREIN
THE PROCESS OF MAKING THE GREAT ELIXIR
is discovered
BY WHICH BASE METALS MAY BE TURNED INTO PURE GOLD CONTAINING THE MOST
;
EXCELLENT AND PROFITABLE INSTRUCTIONS IN THE
HERMETIC ART;
DISCOVERING THAT VALUABLE AND SECRET
MEDICINE OF THE PHILOSOPHERS,
To make Men Healthy Wise and Happy.
, ,
BY BARRETT,
F.
STUDENT OF CHEMISTRY, NATURAL PHILOSOPHY, &C.
1801.'
'
.
'
I 1 . . ... ...
<10 - -
v
.
r;. r
" .. ; . ' 'L ' '.. • / <_
y 0% ; ' . . i '• - ^3 ' r_
. ... v.
'T ' >• ' - v i.v'.v u . :: r r •. <.v i r
-
V. . . CA v.’. , y)
/ .-•••-
,yy ~ : v ' o- V .
* ... ’
; V. i i
Ovl '!iisoecJiiA? vi'ax :- r -'
../
‘
. f •
»—
;
S3
EPISTLE TO MUSEUS.
“ Thou, O, Mufeus ! whofe mind is high,
“ Obferve my words, and read them with thineeye
;
“ Thefe fecrets in thy facred breaft repone,
“ And in thyjourney think of God alone
;
“ The Author of all things, that cannot die
“ Ofwhom we nowfhall fpeak ” '
I TELL thee here, Mufeus, to obferve our words, and read
them with thine eye, that is, the eye of thine underflanding for, know, there
;
are many that hear us fpeak, that read not the meaning- ofour words. Where-
fore fhouldft thou contemplate thefe mylteries with fo much coiiftancy of
mind, if thou didft not perceive in them fome great good molt defirable ?
Litten, then, O, young man, and hear our words We will fhew thee the dan-
—!
gerous precipice of vanity and head-long defire we will defcribe to thee the
ftubborn and fatal will of our paffions, even with tears of contrition, and heart-
—
felt compaffion for thy inexperience we will lead thee, as it were, by the
hand, through thofe labyrinths of vice, wherewith thou art daily furrounded
;
and, however prejudiced thou mighteft be againlt the receiving of our dodtrine,
yet, be aifufed, we have in our polfeffion the magical virtue and power of bind-
ing thee to our principles, and making thee happy, in fpite of thyfelf. Here
— —
is a great fecret ! thou fh — alt fay every man wilhes to be happy which I
grant but my anfwer is molt men prevent their own happinefs they de-
;
ftroy it, by fuffering themfelves to be governed by the outward principle of
the flelh, thinking the grealejl good to be in the fatisfying of their carnal
appetites, or in the amafling together heaps of wealth, whereby they thrud
down the meek and poor, raifing up the dandards of Pride, Envy, and Op-
predion. Thefe things every day’s experience confirms nay, there are forne
;
fo blind, that, in the pofledion of much wealth, they think there is nothing
beyond54 EPISTLE TO MUSEUS.
beyond it ; infomuch, that they triumph in ////?, opprejjion , revenge , and con-
tumely . Bat how is it, thou wilt fay, that, feeing- — man is a reafonable being-,
he can poffibly give up his government fo eafily ? I fay, when man fuffers
the unreafonable and beftial part to deprave him, then he immediately be-
comes a have, (and the vileft of havery is that which deprives man of his focial
virtues for then, although in the pofleffion of great wordly things, fuch as
-,)
houfes, eftates, and ail other temporal gifts, yet he becomes an immediate
W
infbrument to the Prince of this orld and the Powers of Darknefs, feeing
that thofe riches he inherits are merely given him in this life, to bellow upon
others thofe necelfaries and comforts which he himfelf does not feel the want
of, and by which he might, if not blinded by his paffions and lulls, fecure
liimfelf an eternal and incorruptible treafure. But he who polfeffes treafures
without men y, liberality, bounty, charity, &c., robs the Eternal Author of
all good, of the honour due unto him, and, in Ihort, is working deltrudlion to
his own foul his riches, inftead of benefiting himfelf and others, eventually
;
and finally terminates as a curie : while he lives here, he is a fcourge to
fociety and, after he leaves this, it is plain enough pointed out in the New
-,
Tevtament what will be his filiation and condition.
Therefore, thou young man, that hall but a few years to live, lludy how
to attain the Hone we teach of : it will — protradl the beauty of thy youth,
though thou Ihouldlt live for centuries it will ever fupply thee with the
means of comforting the afflidled infomuch, that when thou hall attained this
;
truly defirable and moll perfedl talifman, thy life will become foft and plea-
—
fant no cares, nor corroding pangs -no felf-torment will ever invade thy
;
mind neither lhalt thou want the means to be happy, in refpedl of the pof-
-,
feflfion of the goods of this life, but l — halt have abundantly. Blit how, and
from what fource, all this —is to proceed out of what thing or matter thou lhalt
attain thywifhed-for end, the lludyingofthe enfuing Treatife will fufficiently
Ihew.
Thy Friend,
F. B.
TO55
TO THE READER.
Although
we do not, in any point of fcience, arrogate
perfection to ourfelves, yet fomething we have attained by dear experience, by
diligent labour, and by ftudy, worthy of being communicated for the in-
—
ftrufilion of either the licentious libertine, or the grave ftudent the obferver
ofNature and this, our Work, we concentrated into afocus : it is, as it were,
;
a fpiritual eflence drawn from a large quantity ofmatter for we can fay, with
;
propriety, that this little Treatife is truly fpiritual, and elfential to the hap-
pinefs of man therefore, to thofe who with to be happy, with every good
:
intention we commend this Work to be their conftant companion and ftudy,
in which, if they perfevere, they fhall not fail of their defires in the attain-
ment of the true Philofophers’ Stone.
PARTbS
PART THE
FIRST.
or ALCHYMY, ITS DIVINE ORIGIN, &C. DIFFICULTY OF ATTAINING A PEREECTION IN THE
ART WHAT AN ADEPT IS OF THE CABALA THE ROSIE CRUCIANS ADEPTISTS POS-
SIBILITY OF BEING AN ADEPT LIKEWISE, THAT THE LAPIS PIII LOSOPHORUM EXISTS
IN NATURE, AND THAT PROVED BY SUFFICIENT AUTHORITY, AND THAT THEY ARE NOT
ALL IMPOSTORS WIIO ARE ALCHYMISTS, OR PRETEND TO IT THE MADNESS OF TIIF.
SCHOOLS PROVED, AND THE FOOLISHNESS OF THEIR WISDOM THE TRIUMPH OF CHE-
MICAL PHILOSOPHY, OR THE HERMETIC ART PREFERABLE TO ANY OTHER.
IT
is not neceffary here to enter into a long detail of the
merits of Alchymical Authors and Philofophers fuffice it to fay, that Alchy-
;
my, the grand touch-rflone of natural wifdom, is of Divine origin : it was
brought down from Heaven by the Angel Uriel. Zoroafter, the firft philofo-
pher by fire, made pure gold from all the feven metals he brought the fun
;
ten times brighter from the bed of Saturn, and fixed it with the moon, who
thereby copulating, begot a numerous offspring of an immortal nature, a pure
living fpiritual fun, burning in the refulgency of its own divin^light, a feed
of a fublime and fiery nature, a vigorous progenitor. This Zoroafter was the
father of alchymy, illumined divinely from above he knew every thing, yet
;
feemed to know nothing his precepts of art were left in hieroglyphics, yet in
;
fuch fort that none but the favourites of Heaven ever reaped benefit thereby.
He was the firft who engraved the pure Cabala in moll pure gold, and, when
he died, refigned it to his Father who liveth eternally, yet begot him not : that
Father gives it to his fons, wrho follow the precepts of Wifdom with vigilance,
ingenuity, and induftry, and with a pure, chafle, and free mind.
Hermes Trifmegiflus, Geber, Artephius, Bacon, Helmont, Lully, and
Bafil Valentine, have written mofl profoundly, yet abftrufely, and all declare
not the thing fought for. Some fay they were forbid others, that they de-
;
clared it obvioufly and intelligibly, yet fome few little points they kept to
themfelves.—
r
AALLCCHHYYMMYY.. 57
Part I.
themfelves. However far off the main point they lead us, of this be fure,-—
that fomething valuable is to be drained, as it were, out of each. —
—
Geber is good Artephius is better-~but Flammel is bell of all ; and
better ftill than thefe is the iaftru&ions we give ; for with them a man (fol-
lowing our directions) fhall never want gold therefore to be an adept is poi-
;
fible, but firft « feek the kingdom of God, and all thefe things ihall be added
unto you.” This is truth — incontrovertible, and herein lies a vaft fecret—
“ feek, and ye (hall find3 ” but remember, whatfaever ye alk, that fhall ye
receive.
The cabala, in its utmoft purity, is contained i — n the many precepts given
in this book. The cabala enables us to underhand to br — ing our underftand-
ings to afit, and, by — that means, to attain knowledge ; knowledge makes
us the children of God God makes whom he pleafes adepts in wifdom. To
be an adept, according to God’s will, is no contemptible calling.
The noble and virtuous Brethren ofthe Rofy Crofs hold this truth facred,.
that “ Virtue flies from no man therefore how definable a thing is Virtue.
She teaches us, firft, wifdom, then charity, love, mercy, faith, and conftancy :
all thefe appertain to Virtue therefore it is phyfically poflible for any well-
;
inclined man to become an adept, provided he lays afide hispride of reafoning,
all obftinacy, blindnefs, hypocrify, incredulity, fuperftition, deceit, &c.
An adept, therefore, is one who not only ftudies to do God’s will upon
earth, in refpeCt ofhis moral and religious duties but who ftudies, and ardently
;
prays to his benevolent Creator to beftow on him wifdom and knowledge from
the fulnefs of his treafury and he meditates, day and night, how he may
—;
attain the true aqua vita how he may be filled with the grace of God
;
which, when he is made fo happy, his fpiritual — or internal eye is open to a
glorious profpecf of mort — al and immortal riches : he wants notfood, rai — ment
joy, or any other thing he is filled with th — e celeftial fpiritual manna he
enjoys the marrow and fat things of the earth he treads the wine-prefs, not
—
of the wrath, but of the mercy of God he lives to the glory of God, and
dies faying “ Holy, holy, holy Lord of Sabaoth ! bleffed is thy name, now
and for evermore Amen.”
!
H
Book I. Therefore,)8 ALCHYMY. Book I.
Therefore, to be an adept, as we have before hinted, is te> know thyfelf,
fear God, and love thy neighbour as thyfelf and by this thou fhalt come to
;
the fulfilment of thy defires, O, man but by no other means under the fcope
;
of Heaven.
When thy foul fliall be made drunk by the divine ambrofi — al ne6Iar, then
(hall thy underftanding be more clear than the noontide fun then, by thy
;
Itrong and fpiritualized intellectual eye, lhalt thou fee into the great treafury
—
of Nature, and thou fhalt praiie God with thy whole heart then wilt thou
;
fee the folly of the world and thou fhalt unerringly accomplifh thy defire,
and fhalt poffefs the true Philofophers’ ftone, to the profit of thy neighbour.
1 fay, thou fhalt vifibly and fenfibly, according to thy corporal faculties not
;
imaginary, not delufively, but real.
Helmont, an author of no mean repute, avouches that he had actually feen
the flone which converts bafe metals into gold that he had feen it with his
;
eyes, and handled it with his fingers : taken from his own relation of the fa£t ;
notwithflanding Kircher’s declamation againfl the poflibility of obtaining it,
noting them all who profelTed alchymy to be a fet of impoflors and j—ugglers,
giving no better an expofition oftheir procefs oftranfmutation than this “ An
Alchymift,” fays Kircher, “ procures or defires a crucible to be brought, wherein
is put lead or any other bafe metal, which, while in fufion, he (the Alchymift)
flirs about with an iron rod, and then,” he fays, “ he drops in, from between his
fingers, a bit of gold and after flirring up for fome time, and effay being
;
made, gold is found.” This is, indeed, a very lame method of exploding
alchymy but, however, to leave Kircher as much in the dark as he was, we
•,
fliall give you Van Helmont’s declaration, a philofoph—er of much greater note
than thi? pfeudo-chemift Kircher. Van Ilelmont fays “ I have divers times
my
handled that flone with hands, and have feen a real tranfmutation of fale-
able quickfilver with mine eyes, which, in proportion, did exceed the powder
which made the gold in fome thoufand degrees.
“ It was of the colour that is in faffron, being weighty in its powder, and
fhining like bruifecl glafs, when it fhould be the lefs exactly beaten. But
there was once given unto me the fourth part of one grain, (I call, alfo, a
grain—
Part I. AALLGCBBYYMMYY.. 59
grain the fix hundredth part of an ounce). This powder I involved in wax,
fcraped off a certain letter, left, in catling it into the crucible, it fhould be
difperfed, through the finoak of the coals which pellet of wax I afterwards
;
call into the three-cornered veffel of a crucible upon a pound of quickfilver, hot
and newly bought and prefently the whole quickfilver, with fome little noife,
;
flood ftill from flowing, and reftded like a lump but the heat of that argent
;
vive was as much as might forbid melted lead from recoagulating. The fire
being ftraightway after increafed under the bellows, the metal was melted the
;
which, the veffel of fufton being broken, I found to weigh eight ounces of the
molt pure gold.
“ Therefore, a computation being made, a grain of that powder doth con-
cert nineteen thoufand two hundred grains of impure and volatile metal, which
^Pobliterable by the fire, into true gold.
“ For that powder, by uniting the aforefaid quickfilver unto itfelf, preferved
the fame, at one inftant, from an eternal ruft, putrefa6lion, death, and torture
of the fire, howfoever moft violent it was, and made it as an immortal thing,
againft any vigour or induftry of art and fire, and tranfchanged it into the
virgin purity of gold at leaftwife one only fire of coals is required herein.”
;
By which we fee, that fo learned and profound a philofopher as Van
Helmont could not fo eafily have been made to believe that there exifted a pof-
fibility of tranfmutation of bafe metals into pure gold, withouthe had a6tually
proved the fame by experiment.
Again, let the Handing monuments of Flammel’s liberal bounty to the
poor, through this mean, to be feen at Paris every day, ftand as a teftimony
to the truth of the exifting poflibility of tranfmutation. Likewife, Helmont
mentions a ftone that he faw, and had in his poffeflion, which cured all dif-
orders, theqfiague not excepted. I ftiall relate the circumflance in his own
words, which are as follow :
“ There was a certain Irifhman, whofe name was Butler, being fome time
great with James, King of England, he being detained in the prifon of the
Caftle of Vilvord and taking pity on one Baillius, a certain Francifcan
;
Monk, a moft famous preacher of Gallo-Britain, who was alfo imprifonech
H
2 having—
60 ALCIIYMY. Book I.
having' an erifipelas in his arm on a certain evening, when the Monk did
;
almoft defpair, he fwiftly tinged a certain little Hone in a fpoonful o—f almond-
milk, and prefently withdrew it thence. So he fays to the keeper ‘ Reach
this flipping to that Monk and how much foever he fhall take thereupon, he
; —
fnall be whole, at leaH within a fhort hour’s fpace.’ Which thing even fo came
to pafs, to the great admiration of the keeper and the fick man, not knowing
from whence fo fudden health fhone upon him, feeing that he was ignorant
that he had taken any thing : for his left arm, being before hugely fwollen,
fell down as that it could fcarcely be difcerned from the other. On the morn-
ing following, I, being entreated by fome great men, came to Vilvord, as a
witnefs of his deeds therefore I contracted a friendfhip with Butler.
;
“ Soon afterwards, I faw a poor old woman, a laundrefs, who, from the
ag'e of fixteen years, had laboured with an intolerable megrim, cured in m^|
prefence. Indeed he, by the way, lightly dipped the fame little Hone in a
fpoonful of oil of olives, and prefently cleanfed the fame Hone by licking- it
with his tongue, and laid it up into his fnuff-box but that fpoonful of oil he
;
poured into a fmall bottle of oil, whereof one only drop he commanded to
be anointed over the head of the aforefaid old woman, who was thereby
Hraightway cured, and remained whole which I atteH I was amazed, as if he
;
w as become another Midas but he, finding, faid
•,
‘ My moH dear friend, unlefs thou come hitherto, fo as to be able, by one
only remedy, to cure every difeafe thou fhalt remain in thy young beginnings
—, ,
however oldthou flialt become.’ I eafily affented to this, becaufe I had learned
that from the fecrets of Paracelfus and being now more confirmed by fight
;
and hope. But I willingly confefs, that that new mode of curing was unac-
cuHomed and unknown to me : I therefore faid, that a young Prince of our
Court, Vifcount of Gaunt, brother to the Prince of Epifuoy, of a very great
Houfe, was fo wholly proHrated by the gout, that he thenceforth lay only on
one fide, being wretched, and def—ormed with many knots : he, therefore,
taking hold of my right hand,—faid ‘ Wilt thou that I cure the young man ?
I will cure him for thy fake.’ ‘ But,’ I replied, ‘ he is of that obflinacy,
that he had rather die, than drink one only medicinal potion.’
{ Be—
Part I. ALCHYMY, 61
< Be it fo,’ faid Butler ; ‘ for neither do I require any other thing, than
that he do, every morning, touch this little ftone, thou feeft, with the top of
his tongue for after three weeks from thence, let him wafh the painful and
;
unpainful knots with his own urine, and thou lhalt foon afterwards fee him
cured, and foundly walking. Go thy ways, and tell him, with joy, what I
have faid.’
“ I, therefore, being glad, returned to Bruffels, and told him what Butler
had faid. —
“ But the Potentate anfwered ‘ Go, tell Butler that if he lh — all reftore me
as thou haft faid, I will give him as much as he fhall require ; demand the
price, and I will willingly fequefter that which is depofited for his fecurity.’—
And when I dec—lared that thing to Butler, on the day following, he was very
i^rath, and faid ‘ That Prince is mad, or witlefs and miferable, and there-
fore will I never h — elp him : for neither do I ftand in need of his money
neither do I yield nor am I inferior to him.’—Nor could I ever induce him,
afterwards, to perform what before he had promifed wherefore I began to
;
doubt whether the things I had before feen were dreams.
“ It happened, in the mean time, that a friend, overfeer and mafter of
the glafs-furnace at Antwerp, being exceeding fat, moft earneftly requefted of
Butler that he might be freed from his fatnefs unto whom Butler offered a
;
fmall piece of that little ftone, that he might once every morning lick, or
fpeedily touch it with the top of his tongue : and, within three weeks, I faw
his breaft made more ftrait, or narrow, by one fpan, and him to have lived
no lefs whole afterwards. Wherefore I began again to believe that the afore-
faid gouty Prince might have been cured, according to the manner Butler
had promifed.
“ In the mean time, I fent to Vilvord, to Butler, for a remedy, in the cafe
—
of poifon given me by a fecret enemy for I miferably languifhed all my
5
joints were pained •, and my pulfe, vehement, being at length become an in-
termitting one, did accompany the faintings of my mind, and extinguifh-
ment of my ftrength.
Butler,(go ALCHYMY. Book
1,
“ Butler, being; ftill detained in prifon, commanded my houfehold-fervant,
whom I had fent, that forthwith he fhould bring- unto him a fmall bottle of
oil of olives and his little ftone, aforefaid, being- tinged therein, as at other
;
times, he fent that oil unto me and told the fervant, that with one only fmall
;
drop of the oil, I fhould anoint only one place of the pain, or all the places,
if f would the which I did, and yet felt no help thereby. In the mean
;
time, my enemy, according to his lot, being about to die, bade that pardon
fhould be craved of me for his fin and fo I knew that I had taken poifon, the
;
which I fufpefted and therefore, alfo, I procured with all care to extinguifh
;
the flow venom, which, through the grace of God favouring me, I efcaped.
“ Seeing that-; afterwards, many other cures were performed upon certain
gentlewomen, I alked Butler why fo many women fhould be cured, but that
I (while that I fharply conflidted with death itfelf, being alfo environed wkh
—
pains of all my joints and organs) — fhould not feel any eafe ? But he afited
with what difeafe I had laboured ? And when he underflood that poifon had
—
given a beginning to the difeafe, he faid, that, as the caufe had come from
within to without, the oil ought to be taken into the body, or the ftone to be
touched with the tongue becaufe the grief being cherifhed within, it was not
;
local or external and alfo obferved, that the oil did, by degrees, uncloath
;
itfelf with the efficacy of healing, becaufe the little ftone being lightly tinged
in it, it had not pithily charged the oil throughout its whole body, but had
only ennobled it with a delible or obliterable befprinkling of its odour : for
truly that ftone did prefent, in the eyes and tongue, fea-falt fpread abroad, or
rarified and it is fufficiently known that fait is not to be very intimately
mixed with oil.
“ This fame man, alfo, cured an Abbefs, who, for eighteen years, had had
her right arm fwelled, with an entire deprivation of motion, and the fingers
thereof ftiff and unmoveable, only by the touching of her tongue with this
admirable ftone.
“ But very many being prefent witneffes ofthefe fame wonders, did fufpedt
fome hidden forcery, or diabolical craft for the common people have it for an
;
ancient cuftom, that whatfoever honelt thing their ignorance has determined
notALCHYMY. 63
Part I.
not to comprehend, they do, for a privy fhift of their ignorance, refer the
fame to be the juggling pf an evil fpirit. But I could never decline fo far,
becaufe the remedy was fuppofed to be natural for neither words, cere-
•,
monies, nor any other fufpedted thing, was required. For neither is it lawful,
according to man’s power of underftanding, to refer the glory of God, fhewn
forth in Nature, unto the devil. For none of thofe people had required aid
of Butler, as from necromancy any way fufpedted yea the thing was at firft
;
made trial of with fmiling, and without faith and confidence ; yet this eafy
method of curing fhall long remain fufpedted by many for the wit of the
;
vulgar being inconftant and idle, they do more readily confecrate fo great a
bounty of reftitution unto diabolical contrivance, than to Divine goodnefs,
the framer, lover, faviour, refrether of human nature, and the father of the
poor. And thefe vile prejudices are not only inherent in the common people,
but alfo in thofe that are learned, who rafhly fearch into the beginning of
healing, being not yet inftrudted, or obferving the common and blockith
rules becaufe they are always wife as children, who have never gone over
5
their mother’s threfhold, being afraid of every fable. For they who have not
hitherto known the whole circuit of difeafes to be included within the fpirit of
life, which maketh the affault ; or if they hereafter, reading my ftudies by the
way, fhall imprint on themfelves this moment or concernment of healing
;
neverthelefs, becaufe they have been already before accuftomed, from the
very beginnings of their ftudies, to the precepts of the humorifts, they will
eafily, at length, depart from me, and leap back to the favourite bigotry and
ancient opinions of the fchools.”
But now we will haften to the manner of preparation neceflary to qualify a
man for the attainment of thefe fublime gifts.
Of;
64 ALCHYMY. Book
I.
Ofthe Preparation of a Man to qualify him for the Search of this Treafire
and of thefirfl Matter {prima materia') of the Stone.
LESSON
i.
—
The preparation for — this work is fimply this : Learn to caft away from
thee all vile affections all levity and inconftancy of mind let all thy deal-
;
ings be free from deceit and hypocrify avoid the company of vain young
;
men hate all profligacy, and profane fpeaking.
;
LESSON II.
Keep thy own, and thy neighbours’ fecrets court not the favours of the
;
rich defpife not the poor, for he who does will be poorer than the pooreft.
;
lesson in.
Give to the needy and unfortunate what little thou canft fpare for he that
;
has but little, whatever he fpares to the miferable, God (hall amply reward him.
lesson iv.
Be merciful to thofe who offend thee, or who have injured thee for what
;
muff that man’s heart be, who would take heavy vengeance on a flight offence ?
Thou fhalt forgive thy brother until feventy times feven.
LESSON V.
Be not hafty to condemn the actions of others, left thou fhouldft, the
next hour, fall into the very fame error defpife fcandal and tattling let thy
j ;
words be few.
LESSONPart I. ALCHYMY. 65
LESSON VI.
Study day and night, and fupplicate thy Creator that he would be pleafed
to grant thee knowledge and underftanding and that the pure fpirits may
;
have communication with, and influence, in thee.
lesson yn.
Be not overcome with drunkennefs for, be affured, that half the evils that
j
befall mankind originate in drunkennefs for too great a quantity of ftrong
:
liquors deprive men of their reafon then, having loft the ufe of the faculty of
;
their judgment, they immediately become the recipient of all evil influences,
and are juftly compared to weathercocks, that are driven hither and thither by
every guft of wind fo thofe who drown the reafonable power, are eafily^per-
;
fuaded to the lighteft and moft frivolous purfuits, and, from thefe, to vices
more grofs and reprobate for the minifters of darknefs have never fo favour-
;
able an opportunity of infinuating themfelves into the minds and hearts of
men, as when they are loft in intoxication. I pray you to avoid this dreadful
vice.
LESSON VIII.
—
Avoid gluttony, and all excefs it is very pernicious, and from the Devil :
thefe are the things that conftantly tempt man, and by which he falls a prey
to his fpiritual adverfary for he is rendered incapable of receiving any good
;
or divine gift. Befides, the divine and angelic powers or effences delight not
to be converfant about a man who is defiled, and ftinking with debauchery
and excefs.
lesson ix.
Covet not much gold, but learn to be fatisfied with enough for to defire
;
more than enough, is to offend the Deity.
Book
I. I lesson66 ALCHYMY. Book
I.
LESSON X.
Read often thefe ten preparatory Leffons to fit thee for the great work, and
for the receiving of higher things for the more pure thou art in heart and
;
mind, by fo much quicker fhall you perceive thofe high fecrets we teach, and
•which are entirely hid from the difcernment of the vicious and depraved, be-
caiife it never can happen that fuch a fource of treafure can be attained merely
to fatisfy our more grofs, earthly, and vain defires and inclinations becaufe
;
here nothing mull be thought to be grafped, or wrefied out of this book, but
to the fulfilling- of a good end and purpofe. When thou fhalt have fo far
purified thy heart, as we have fpoken is indifpenfably neceffary for the receiv-
ing of every good thing, thou fhalt then fee with other eyes than thou doft at
—
prefent thy fpiritual eye will be opened, and thou fhalt read man as plain as
thou writ our books but, for all this, depend not on the ftrength of thy own
;
wifdom, for even then, when we think our hearts fecure, if we do not watch
them that they fleep not, the Devil, or his minifters, immediately take us at
this unguarded moment, and tempts us into the aftual commiflion of fome fin
or other either he excites our appetite for lufi and concupifce—nce, or any
:
other deadly fin therefore, ufing our blefied Redeemer’s words “ What 1
;
fay unto you, I fay unto you all---iwatch 1”
Perhaps, I do not doubt but, there are fome that wil — l fay, when they look
at our works, this fellow is all rant, all preaching he tells us what we
knew before as well as himfelf. To fuch I fay, let them read our book but
twice if they do not gather fomething that they will acknowledge precious,
;
(nay, be convinced that it is precious, to their own fatisfadtion) I will burn
thefe writings, and they fhall be no moreremembered by me.
To conclude this Part we fay that the Firft Matter Prima Materia
: ( )
Adam brought with him out of Paradife, and left it, as an inheritance, to us
his fucceffors had he remained in his original purity, he would have been
;
permitted to have ufed it himfelf but the eternal fiat was pafled, that he was
;
to “ earn his bread by the fweat of his brow therefore he could not effect
what was afterwards performed by fome of his offspring.
PIcrmes—
'
Part I. AaLlCcIhIyYmMyY.. 67
Hermes Trifmegiftus, that ancient philofopher, wrote touching1 the attain-
' ment of this ftone, which he pronounced to be of all benefit to man, and one
of the greateft bleflings he could poffefs and although his writings contain
much of the excellency of truth, being wrapped up in fuch fymbolical figures,
it renders them exceedingly difficult to be underftood, yet, if comprehended,
they, no doubt, contain fome very great -fecrets by which mortal man may
profit.
Now it belongs to our purpofe to know what it is from which we mull ex-
tract the firft matter of this ftone, to go on with our procefs, becaufe we muft
have materials to work upon for all philofophers agree that, the firft matter
;
being found, we may proceed without much difficulty. For thefirji matter
,
(I fhall fpeak as plainly a — s pofiible) firft, the grand queftion in debate is
We
Where is it to be found ? I fay it is to be found in ourfelves. all poffefs
this firft matter, from the beggar to the king every mothers’ fon carries it
;
about him and, could our ingenious chemifts but find a procefs for the ex-
;
tracting, how well would all their labours be repaid. The next queftion na-
—
turally comes thus How are we to draw, or attract the fecret matter of the
—
ftone out of ourfelves ? Not by any common means and yet it is to be
5
drawn into very aCtion, and that by the mo ft fimple means, and in a manner
that the attaining of the philofophers’ ftone would very foon follow it. I
pray you, my friend, look into thyfelf, and endeavour to find out in what
part of thy compofition is theprima materia of the lapisphilofophorum or out
,
of what part of thy fubftance can the firft matter of our ftone.be drawn out.
Thou fayeft, it muft either be in the hair , fweat , or excrement. I fay in
none of thefe thou fhalt ever be able to find it, and yet thou fhalt find it in
thyfelf.
Many great philofophers and chemifts, whom I have the pleafure to know,
affirm that, admitting of the poftibility of tranfmutation, it (/. e. the
firft matter ) muft be taken from the pureft gold. To this I fay it muft
not neither has it any thing at all to do with extrinfical gold. They will
;
fay then that the pure ens of gold may be drawn from gold itfelf. True, it
may fo but then I would afk if they could ever produce more gold than
5
I 2 that63 AALLCCHHYYMMYY.. Book
I.
that out of which the foul or offence was extracted if they have, they have
;
indeed found out a fecret beyond the powers of our comprehenfion becaufe it
;
is agairrft reafon to fuppofe that if a pound of gold yields a drachm of the
foul or effence, that that only will tinge any more than a pound of purified
lead, or $ ; becaufe we have tried various experiments, and I have, in feme
of my firfl effays, turned both lead and mercury into good gold but no more
;
than that out of which the foul was extracted.' But, however, not to lofe.
our time in vain and ridiculous difputation, know that whatever prodigious
things or experiments have been tried with refpeft to the firfl matter, by ex-
ternal fubjefts, either in the mineral, animal, or vegetable kingdoms, as they
are called, I fay in us is the power of all wonderful things, which the fupreme
Creator has, of his infinita mercy, implanted in our fouls out of her is to be
;
extradited the firfl matter, the true argent vrve, the g of the philofophers, the
true ens of o viz. a fpiritual living gold, or waterifn mercury, or firfl matter,
,
which, by being maturated, is capable oftranfmuting a thoufand pts. of impure
metal into good and pcrfe6t gold, which endure fire, tell, or cupel.
PART
II.
OF THE MANSER OF EXTRACTING THE FIRST HATTER OF THE PHILOSOPHERS’ STONE, AND
THE USE IT IS PUT TO IN PURIFYING THE IMPERFECT METALS, AND TRANSMUTING
THEM INTO GOOD GOLD.
LESSON XI.
TAKE the foregoing inftruftions as thy principal inftrument, and know
that our foul has the power, .when the body is free, as we before faid, of any
pollution, the heart void of malice and offence I fay the foul is then a free
;
agent, and has the power, fpiritually and magically, to aft upon any matter
whatfoever therefore I faid the firfl matter is in the foul and the extraditing
; ;
of it, is to bring the dormant power of the pure, living, breathing fpirit and
eternal foul into aft. Note well that every agent has its power of adding upon
its;
Part I. ALCHYMY', 69
its patient. Every effence that is diltilled forth is received into a recipient,
but that recipient mutt firlt be made clean. Even fo mull the foul and heart
of man the vile affe6tions mud be thrown away, and trampled under foot
: ;
then (halt thou be able to proceed in thy work, which do in the manner
following-.
flfeSSON XII.
The expence thou mull be at will be but a trifle : all the inllruments ne-
ceffary are but three, viz. a crucible, an egg philofophical, and a retort with
its receiver. Put your line gold, in weight about b dwts., file it up, put it
into your philofophic egg, pour upon it the twice of its weight of the bell
Hungarian 5 , clofe up the egg with an Hermetic feal, put it for three months
in horfe-dung, take it out at the end of that time, and fee what kind of form
thy gold and $ has alfumed take it out, pour on it half its weight of good
;
fpirit of fal amraon., fet them in a pot full of fand over the fire in the retort,
let them dillil into a pure elfence, add to one pt. of this $ two pts. of thy
water of life, or prima materia put them into thy philofophical egg, and
,
lesson xfti.
fet them into horfe-dung for another three months then take them out, and fee
;
what thou hall— a pure etherial elfence, which is the living g-old pour this
;
pure fpiritual liquor upon a drachm of molten fine gold, and you will find that
which will fatisfy thy.hunger and thirliing- after this fecret for the increafe
;
ofthy gold will feem to thee miraculous, as indeed it is. Take it to a jewel-
ler’s, or goldfmith’s let him try it in thy prefence, and thou wilt have reafon
;
to blefs God for his mercy to thee. Do thy duty as he hath commanded thee,
and ufe all the benefit thou flialt receive, in actions worthy of thy nature.
lesson xiv.
When thy fpiritual eye is opened, and thou flialt begin to fee to what end
thou wert created, thou flialt want no necelfary thingeither for thy comfort or
fupport—
70 ALCHYMY. Book I.
fupport only keep in the rules we have prefcribecl in the beginning' of this
; —
little treatife Fear God, and love thy neighbour as thyfelf be not haily to
;
reveal any fecrets thou mayeft learn, for the good fpirits, both day and night,
will be thy inftru61ors, and will continually reveal thee many fecrets. Think
not that thou canft either profit or benefit fo much by the inftru&ion of thofe
who profefs great advantages in claflical education and high fchooling be
;
affined they are, in fpiritual knowledge, much in the dark for he who defires
:
not fpiritual knowledge cannot attain it by any means, but by, firft, coming to
God fecondly, by purifying his own heart thirdly, by fubmitting himfelf
j ;
to the will of the Holy Spirit, to guide and direct him in all truth, to the
attaining of all knowledge, both human and divine and by arrogating no-
5
thing to our own power or ftrength, but by referring all to the mercy and
goodnefs of God. Amen.
#
THETHE
MAGUS;
OR,
CELESTIAL INTELLIGENCER.
CONTAINING
THE CONSTELLATORY PRACTICE,
OR
TALISMANIC MAGIC
.
- L_ SHEWING
Thetrue Propertiesof theElements, Meteors, Stars, Planets,&c. &rc.; likewifetheNatureof Intelligences, Spirits, Demons,
andDevils j theConllructionandCompofitionofallSortsof MagicSeals, Images, Rings, Glaffes, Pictures,&c.&c. ;
thePowerand CompofitionofNumbers, MathematicalFigures, andCharactersofSpiritsbothgoodandevil.
THE WnOLE OF THE ABOVE ILLUSTRATED BY A GREAT VARIETY OF
Beautiful Figures, Types, Letters, Seals, Images,. Magic Characters, fyc.
FORMING A COMPLETE SYSTEM OF
DELIGHTFUL KNOWLEDGE AND ABSTRUSE SCIENCE
;
Such as is warranted never before to have been published in the English Language,
BY FRANCIS BARRETT,
m
STUDENT OF CHEMISTRY, OCCULT PHILOSOPHY, THE CABALA, &C.&C. &C.
~*4.d•‘
1801.13
PART THE SECOND.
CHAP.
I.
OF THE FOUR ELEMENTS, AND THEIR NATURAL QUALITIES.
It is neceffary that we fhould know and underftand the nature
and quality of the four elements, in order to our being1 perfect in the prin-
ciples and ground-work of our ftudies in the Talifmanic, or Magical Art.
Therefore, there are four elements, the original grounds of all corporeal
things, viz. fire, earth, water, and air, of which elements all inferior bodies
are compounded not by way of being heaped,up together, but by tranfmuta-
;
tion and union and when they are deftroyed, they are refolved into elements.
;
But there are none of the fenfible elements that are pure but they are, more
;
or lefs, mixed, and apt to be changed the one into the other : even as earth,
being moiftened and diffolved, becomes water but the fame being made thick
,
and hard, becomes earth again and being evaporated through heat it pafles
into air, and that being kindled into fire, and this being extinguilhed, into air
again, but being cooled after burning, becomes earth again, or elfe ftone, or
fulphur and this is clearly demonftrated by lightning. Now every one of
;
thefe elements have two fpecifical properties : the former whereof it retains as
proper to itfelf ; in the other, as a mean — , it agrees with that — which comes
directly af — ter it. For fire is hot and dry earth, cold and dry ; water, cold
and moift and air, hot and moift. And fo in this manner the elements, ac-
cording to two contrary qualities, are oppofite one to the other : as fire to
water, and earth to air. Likewife, the elements are contrary one to the other
—
on another account : two are heavy, as earth and water and the o — thers are
light, as fire and air therefore the Stoics called the former, paflives but the
;
latter, aftives. And Plato diftinguifhes. them after another manner, and
Book K
I. affigns74 TALISMANIC MAGIC. Part II.
alfigns to ea — ch of them three qualities, viz. to the fire, brightnefs, thinnefs,
and motion to the earth, darknefs, thicknefs, and quietnefs and, according
;
to thefe qualities, the elements of fire and earth are contrary. Now the other
elements borrow their qualities from thefe, fo that the air receives two qualities
—
from the fire, thinnefs, and motion and the earth one, viz. darknefs. In like
; —
manner water receives two qualities ofthe earth, darknefs and thicknefs and
;
the fire one, viz. motion. But firft is twice as thin as air, thrice more move-
able, and four times brighter the air is twice more bright, thrice more thin,
;
and four times more moveable. Therefore, as fire is to air, fo is air to water,
and water to the earth and again, as the earth is to the water, fo is water to
;
air, and air to fire. And this is the root and foundation of all bodies, natures,
and wonderful works and he who can know, and thoroughly underhand thefe
;
qualities of the elements, and their mixtures, lhall bring to pafs wonderful and
aftonilhing things in magic.
Now each of thefe elements have a threefold confideration, fo that the num-
ber of four may make up the number of twelve and, by palling by the num-
;
ber of feven into ten, there may be a progrefs to the lupreme unity, upon
which all virtue and wonderful things do depend. Of the firlt order are the
pure elements, which are neither compounded, changed, or mixed, but are
incorruptible and not of which, but through which, the virtues of all natural
;
things are brought forth to a6l. No man is able fully to declare their vir-
tues, becaufe they can do all things upon all tilings. lie who remains igno-
rant of thefe, lhall never be able to bring to pafs any wonderful matter.
Of the fecond order are elements that are compounded, changeable, and
impure yet fuch as may, by art, be reduced to their pure fimplicity whofe
; ;
virtue, when they are thus reduced, doth, above all things, perfe£l all occult
and common operations of Nature and thefe are the foundation of the whole
*,
of Natural Magic.
Of the third order, are thofe elements which originally and of themfelves
are not elements, but are twice compounded, various and changeable into
another. Thefe are the infallible medium and are called the middle nature or
, ,
foul of the middle nature very few there are that underhand the deep myf-
;
teriesChap. II. TALISMANIC MAGIC. 75
teries thereof. In them is, by means of certain numbers, degrees, and orders,
the perfe6tion of every effe6l in what thing1 foever, whether natural celejlial*,
,
or fuperceleltial they are full of wonders and myfteries, and are operative as
:
in Magic natural, fo divine. For from thefe, through them, proceeds the
—
binding, loofmg, and tranfmutation of all things the knowledge and
—
foretelling of things to come alfo, the expelling of evil, and the gaining of
good fpirits. Let no one, therefore, without thefe three forts of elements, and
the true knowledge thereof, be confident that he can work any thing in the
Occult Sciences of Magic and Nature.
But whofoever fhall know how to reduce thofe of one order into another,
impure into pure, compounded into fimple, and fhall underhand diftinHly the
nature virtue and power of them, in number, degrees, and order, without
, ,
dividing the fubftance, he fhall eafily attain to the knowledge and perfe6l
operation of all natural things, and celeftial fecrets likewife and this is the
;
perfection ofthe Cabala, which teaches all thefe before mentioned and, by a
;
perfect knowledge thereof, Ve perform many rare aud wonderful experiments.
CHAP.
II.
OF THE PROPERTIES AND WONDERFUL NATURE OF FIRfi AND EARTH.
,
THERE
are two things, (fays Hefmes) viz. fire and earth, which arefufficient
for the operation of all wonderful things : the former is a£tive, and the latter
paffive. Fire, in all things and through all things, comes and goes away
bright it is in all things bright, and at the fame time occult, and unknown.
;
When it is by itfelf (no other matter coming to it, in which it fhould manifefl
its proper a6tion) it is bou — ndlefs and invifible ; of itfelf fufficient for every
action that is proper to it ; itfelf is one, and penetrates through all things
;
alfo fpread abroad in the heavens, and fhining. But in the infernal place,
ftraitened, dark, and tormenting ; and in the midway it partakes of both.
It is in Hones, and is drawn out by the ftroke of the Heel it is in earth, and
;
K
2 caufes—
76 TtaAlLiIsSmMaAnNiIcC MmAaGgIiCc.. Part II.
caufes it, after digging np, to fmoak it is in water, and heats fprings and
;
wells it is in the depths of the fea, and caufes it, being tolfed with the
*,
winds, to be hot it is in the air, and makes it (as we often fee) to burn.
;
And all animals, and all living things whatfoever, as alfo vegetables, are
—
preferved by heat and every thing that lives, lives by reafon of the in-
;
clofed heat. The properties of the fire that is above, are heat, making all
things fruitful and a celeftial light, giving life to all things. The properties
;
of the infernal fire are a parching heat, confuming all things and darknefs
; ;
making all things barren. The celefiial and bright fire drives away fpirits of
—
darknefs ; alfo, this our fire, made with wood, drives away the fame, in as
much as it hath an analogy with, and is the vehiculum of, that fuperior light
;
as alfo of him who faith, “ 1 am the light of the world,” which is true fire—
the Father of lights, from whom every good thing that is given comes ;
fending forth the light of his fire, and communicating it firft to the fun and
the reft of the celeltial bodies, and by thefe, as by mediating inftruments, con-
veying that light into our fire. As, therefore, the fpirits of darknefs are ftronger
in the dark— fo good fpirits, which are angels of light, are augmented not only
by that light (which is divine, of the fun, and celeftial), but alfo by the light
of our common fire. Hence it was that the firft and moft wife inftitutors of
religions and ceremonies, ordained that prayers, fingings, and all manner of
divine worfhips whatfoever, thould not be performed without ligh—ted candles
or torches hence, alfo, was that fignificant faying of Pythagoras “ Do not
: —
fpeak of God without a light !” And they commanded that, for the driving
away ofwicked fpirits, lights and fires Ihould be kindled by the carcaffes of the
dead, and that they fiiould not be removed until the expiations were, after a
holy manner, performed, and then buried. And the great Jehovah himfelf,
in the old law, commanded that all his facrifices Ihould be offered with fire,
and that fire Ihould always be burning upon the altar, which cuftom the
Priefts of the Altar did always obferve and keep amongft the Romans. Now
the bafis and foundation of all the elements is the earth for that is the obje6t,
;
fubje6t, and receptacle of all celeftial rays and influences : in it are contained
the feeds, and feminal virtues of all things and, therefore, it is faid to be
;
animal.Chap. III. TALISMANIC MAGIC. 77
.
animal, vegetable, and mineral. It, being made fruitful by the other ele-
ments and the heavens, brings forth all things of itfelf. It receives the abun-
dance of all things, and is, as it were, the firft fountain from whence all
—
things fpring ; it is the centre, foundation, and mother of all things. Take
as much of it as you pleafe, feparated, wafhed, depurated, and fubtilized, and,
ifyou let it lie in the open air a little while, it will, being full and abounding
with heavenly virtues, of itfelf bring forth plants, worms, and other living
things ; alfo ftones, and bright fparks of tnetals. In it are great fecrets : if,
at any time, it lhall be purified, by the help of fire,* and reduced into its
fimple nature by a convenient walhing, it is the firft matter of our creation,
and the trueft medicine that can reftore and preferve us.
CHAP.
III.
OF THE WATER AND AIR.
THE
other two elements, viz. water and air, are not lefs efficacious than
the former neither is Nature wanting to work wonderful things in them.
•,
There is fo great a neceffity of water, that without it nothing can live
—no
herb nor plant whatfoever without the moiltening of water, can bring
forth in it is the feminary virtue of all things, efpecially of animals, whofe
;
feed is manifeltly wateriffi. The feeds, 'alfo, of trees and plants, although
they are earthy, mutt, notwithflanding, of neceffity be rotted in water before
they can be fruitful whether they be imbibed with the moifture of the earth,
;
or with dew, or rain, or any other water that is on purpofe put to them.—
For Mofes writes, that only earth and water can bring forth a living foul
5
but he afcribes a two-fold production of things to water, viz. of things fwim-
ming in the water, and of things flying in the air above the earth and
\
* Agrippahere, fpeaking of the element of earth beingreduced to itsutmoft fimplicity, by being purified
by fire anda convenient wafhing, means, that itis the firft and principal ingredient neceffary to the pro-
duction of the Philofopher’s ftone, either of animals or metals.
that—
78 TALISMANIC MAGIC. Part II.
\
that thofe productions that are made in and upon the earth are partly attri-
buted to the very water the fame fcripture teftifies, where it faith, that the
plants and the herbs did not grow, becaufe God had not caufed it to rainupon
the earth. Such is the efficacy of this element of water, that fpiritual rege-
neration cannot be done without it, as Chrift himfelf teftified to Nicodemus.
Very great, alfo, is the virtue of it in the religious worfhip of God, in ex-
piations and purifications ; indeed the neceffity of it is no lefs than
that of fire. Infinite are the benefits, and divers are the ufes, thereof as being
;
that, by virtue of which all things fubfift, are generated, nouriffied, and in-
creafed. Hence it was that Thales of Miletus, and Hefiod, concluded that
water was the beginning of all things and faid it was the firft of all the
;
elements, and the moft potent ; and that^ becaufe it hath the mat — tery over all
u
the ref — t. For, as Pliny — faith— Waters fwallow up the earth extinguiffi
flames afcend on high and, by the ftretching forth of the clouds, challenge
the heavens for their own the fame, falling down, becomes the caufe of all
;
things that grow in the earth.” Very many are the wonders that are done by
waters, according to the writings of Pliny, Solinus, and many other hif-
torians.
Jofephus alfo makes relation of the wonderful nature of a certain river be-
twixt Arcea and Raphanea, cities of Syria, which runs with a full channel
all the Sabbath-day, and then on a fudden flops, as if the fprings were
flopped, and all the fix days you may pafs over it dry-ffiod but again, on
;
the feventh day, no man knowing the reafon of it, the waters return again in
abundance as before ! wherefore the inhabitants thereabout called it the Sab-
bath-day River, becaufe of the feventh day, which was holy to the Jews.
The Gofpel, alfo, teftifies of a ffieep-pool, into which whofoever ftepped firft,
after the water was troubled by the Angel, was made whole of whatfoever
difeafe he had. The fame virtue and efficacy, we read, was in a fpring of the
Ionian Nymphs, which was in the territories belonging to the town of Elis,
at a village called Heradea, near the river Citheron, which whofoever ftepped
into, being difeafed, came forth whole, and cured of all his difeafes. Pau-
fanias alfo reports, that in Lyceus, a mountain of Arcadia, there was a
fpring
I,79
Chap. III. TALISMANIC MAGIC.
fpring called Agria, to which, as often as the drynefs of the region threatened
the defirudtion of fruits, Jupiter, Prieft of Lyceus, went and, after the offer-
;
ing of facrifices, devoutly praying to the waters of the fpring, holding a
bough of an oak in his hand, put it down to the bottom of the hallowed
fpring then, the waters being troubled, a vapour afcending from thence into
;
the air, was blown into clouds, which being joined'together, the whole hea-
ven was overfpread which being, a little after, diffolved into rain, watered
; —
all the country molt wholefomely. Moreover, Ruffus, a phyfician of Ephefus,
befides many other authors, wrote flrange things concerning the wonders of
waters, which, for aught I know, are found in no other author.
—
It remains, that I fpeak ofthe air. This is a vital fpirit paffing through all
—
—
beings giving life and fubfiflence to all things moving and filling all
things. Plence it is that the Hebrew doctors reckon it not amongfl; the ele-
ments but count it as a medium, or glue, joining things together and as
; ;
the refounding fpirit of the world’s inflrument. It immediately receives into
itfelf the influence of all celeflial bodies, and then communicates them to the’
other elements, as alfo to all mixed bodies. Alfo, it receives into itfelf, as if
it were a divine looking-glafs, the fpecies of all things, as well natural as
artificial as alfo of all manner of fpeeches, and retains them and carrying
; ;
them with it, and entering into the bodies of men, and other animals, through
their pores, makes an-impreffion upon them, as well when they are afleep as
when they are awake, and affords matter for divers flrange dreams and divina-
—
tions. Hence, they fay, it is that a man, paffing by a place where a man
was flain, or the carcafs newly hid, is moved with fear and dread becaufe
;
the air, in that place, being full of the dreadful fpecies of man-flaughter,
doth, being breathed in, move and trouble the fpirit of the man with the like
fpecies whence it is that he becomes afraid. For every thing that makes a
;
fudden impreffion aflonifhes Nature. Whence it is that many philofophers
were of opinion, that air is the caufe of dreams, and of many other impref-
fions of the mind, through the prolonging of images, or fimilitudes, or fpe-
cies (which proceed from things and fpeeches, multiplied in the very air), until
they come to the fenfes, and then to the phantafy and foul ofhim that receives
them
;—
80 TAUSMANIC MAGIC. Part II.
them ; which, being freed from cares, and no way hindered, expecting to
meet fuch kind of fpecies, is informed by them. For the fpecies of things,
although of their own proper nature they are carried to the fenfes of men,
and other animals in general, may, notwithftanding, get fome impreffion
from the heavens whilft they are in the air by reafon of which, together
;
with the aptnefs and difpofition of him that receives them, they may be car-
ried to the fenfe of one, rather than of another. And hence it is poffible,
naturally, and far from all manner of fuperftition (no other fpirit coming be-
tween), that a man fhould be able, in a very fmall time, to fignify his mind
unto another man, abiding at a very long and unknown diftance from him
although he cannot precifely give an eftimate of — the time when it is, yet, of
neceffity, it mult be within twenty-four hours ; and I, myfelf, know how
to do it, and have often done —it. The fame alfo, in time palt, did the Abbot
Tritemius both know and do. Alfo, when certain appearances (not only fpi-
ritual, but alfo natural) do flow forth from things, that is to fay, by a cer-
tain kind of flowings forth of bodies from bodies, and do gather llrength in
—
the air, they Ihew themfelves to us as well through light as motion as well to
—
the fight as to other fenfes and fometimes work wonderful things upon us, as
Platonius proves and teacheth. And we fee how, by the fouth-wind, the air
is condenfed into thin clouds, in which, as in a looking-glafs, are reflected
reprefentations, at a great diftance, of caftles, mountains, horfes, men, and
—
other things, which, when the clouds are gone, prefently vanilh. And
Ariftotle, in his Meteors, ffiews that a rainbow is conceived in a cloud of the
—
air, as in a looking-glafs. And Albertus fays, that the effigies ofbodies may,
by the ftrength of Nature, in a moift air, be eafily reprefented in the fame
— ;
And
manner as the reprefentations of things are in things. Ariftotle tells of
a man, to whom it happened, by reafon of the weaknefs of his fight, that the
air that was near to him became, as it were, a looking-glafs to him, and the
optic-beam did refleft back upon himfelf, and could not penetrate the air, fo
that, whitherfoever he went, he thought he faw his own image, with his face
—
towards him, go before him. In like manner, by the artificialnefs of fome
certain looking-glafles, may be produced at a diftance, in the air, befides the
looking-;
Chap. IV. TTAALLIISSMMAANNIICC MMAAGGIICC.. 81
looking-glaffes, what images we pleafe which, when ignorant men fee, they
; —
think they fee the appearances of fpirits or fouls when, indeed, they are no-
thing elfe but femblances a-kin to themfelves, and without life. And it is
well-known, ifin a dark place, where there is no light but by the coming in
of a beam of the fun fome where through a little hole, a white paper or plain
looking-glafs be fet up againft the light, that there may be feen upon them
whatfoever things are done without, beingthined upon by the fun. Andthere
—
is another flight or trick yet more wonderful : if any one fliall take images,
artificially painted, or written letters, and, in a clear night, fet them againft
the beams of the full moon, thofe refemblances being multiplied in the air,
and caught upward, and refledted back together with the beams of the moon,
another man, that is privy to the thing, at a long diftance, fees, reads, and
knows them in the very compafs and circle of the moon which art of de-
;
claring fecrets is, indeed, very profitable for towns and cities that are*befieged,
being a thing which Pythagoras long fince did, and which is not unknown to
fome in thefe days I will not except myfelf. And all thefe things, and many
;
more, and much greater than thefe, are grounded in the very nature of the
air, and have their reafons and caufes declared in mathematics and optics.
And as thefe refemblances are refledted back to the fight, fo al£b are they,
fometimes, to the hearing, as is manifeft in echo. But there are many more
fecret arts than thefe, and fuch whereby any one may, at a remarkable diftance,
hear, and underftand diftindtly, what another fpeaks or whifpers.
' CHAP. IV.
OF COMPOUND, OR MIXED BODIES IN WHAT MANNER THEY RELATE TO THE ELEMENTS
AND HOW THE ELEMENTS RELATE TO THE SOULS, SENSES/ AND DISPOSITIONS OF
MEN.
THE
next in order, after the four fimple elements, are the four kinds of
perfedt bodies compounded of them, viz. metals, ftones, plants, and animals
and although in the generation of each of thefe, all the elements combine to-
Book I. L gether-
82 TALISMANIC MAGIC. Part'll.
gether in the compofition, yet every one of them follows and refembles one of
the elements which is moft predominant : for all {tones, being* earthy, are
naturally heavy, and are fo hardened with drynefs that they cannot be melt-
—
ed but metals are watery, and may be melted, which naturalifts and che-
;
mifts find to be true, viz,, that they are compofed or generated of a vifeous
water, or watery argent vive. Plants have fuch an affinity with the air,
that unlefs they are out in it, and receive its benefit, they — neither flouriffi nor
increafe. So alfo animals, as the Poet finely expreffes it
“ Have, in their natures, a moft fiery force,
“ And alfo fpring from a celellial fource:”
and fire is fo natural to them that, being extinguiffied, they foon die. —
Now, amongft {tones, thofe that are dark and heavy, are called earthy
thofe which are tranfparent, of the -watery element as cryftal, beryl, and
— ,
pearls thofe which fwim upon the water and are fpongious, as the pumice-
—
ftone, fponge, and fophus, are called airy and thofe are attributed to the
element of fire, out of which fire is extracted, or which are refolve — d into fire ;
as thunder-ftones, fire-ftones, affieftos. Alfo, amongft metals ; lead and
filver are earthy ; quickfilver is watery •, copper a — nd tin, airy \ gold — and iron,
fiery. — In plants, alfo, the roots refemble earth the leaves, water flowers,
the air and feed, the fire, by reafon of their multiplying fpirit. Befides,
fome are hot, fome cold, fome moift, others dry, borrowing their names from
the qualities of the elements. Amongft animals, alfo, fome are, in compa-
rifon of others, earthy, becaufe they live in the very bowels of the earth, as
worms, moles, and many other reptiles others watery, as fifh others which
; ;
always abide in the air, therefore airy others, again, fiery, as falamanders,
;
crickets and fuch as are of a fiery heat, as pigeons, oftriches, eagles, lions,
;
panthers, &c. &c.
— —
Now, in animals, the bones refemble earth vital fpirit, the fire flefh, the
—
air and humours, the water and thefe humours alfo refemble the elements,
—; — —
viz. yellow choler, the fire the blood, the air phlegm, the water and
blackChap. V. TALISMANIC MAGIC. 83
black choler, • or melancholy, the earth. And, laftly, in the foul itfelf, the
underloading refembles the fire—-reafon, the air—imagination, the water—
and the fenfes the earth. And thefe fenfes again are divided amongft them-
felves, according to the elements : for t — he fight is fiery, beeaide it cannot per-
ceive without the help of fire and light the hearing is airy, for a found is
—
made by the firiking of the air the fmell and tafte refemble water, without
—
the moifture of which there is neither fmell nor tafte and, lafily, the feeling
is wholly earthly, becaufe it takes grofs bodies for its objecl. The a6lions,
alfo, and operations of man are governed by the elements : for the earth fig-
nifies a flow and firm motion the water, fearfulnefs, fluggiflinefs, and remilf-
;
nefs in working air fignifies cheerfulnefs, and an amiable difpofition but
; ;
fire, a fierce, working, quick, fufceptible difpofition. The elements are,
therefore, the firft and original matter of all things and all things are of
;
and according to them and they in and through all things diffufe their
;
virtues.-
CHAP. V.
THAT THE ELEMENTS ARE IN THE HEAVENS, IN THE STARS, IN DEVILS, ANGELS,
INTELLIGENCES, AND, LASTLY, IN GOD HIMSELF.
IN the original and exemplary world, all things are all in all fo alfo in
;
this corporeal world. And the elements are not only in thefe inferior things
*,
but are in the heavens, in liars, in devils, in angels, and likewife in God
himfelf, the maker and original example of all things.
Now it mull be underllood that in thefe inferior bodies the elements are grofs
and corruptible but in the heavens they are, with their natures and virtues,
*,
after a celellial and more excellent manner than in fublunary things for the
:
firmnefs of the celellial earth is there without the grolfnefs of water and the
;
agility of air without exceeding its bounds the heat of fire without burning,
;
only Ihining, giving light and life to all things by its qeleftial heat,—-Now
L 2 amongft——
84 TALISMANIC MAGIC. Part II.
—
amongft the ftars, or — planets, fome are fiery, as Mars, a — nd the Sun airy, as
Jupiter, and Venus watery, as Saturn, and Mercury and earthy, fuch as
inhabit the eighth orb, and the Moon (which by many is accounted watery),
feeing1 that, as if it were earth, it attracts to itlelf the celeftial waters, with
which being imbibed it does, on account of its proximity to us, pour forth
and communicate to our globe.
There are, likewife, amongft the figns, fome fiery, fome airy, fome watery,
and fome earthy. The elements rule them alfo, in the heavens, diftributing
,
to them thefe four threefold confiderations of every element, according to their
triplicities, viz. the beginning, middle, and end.
Likewife, devils are difiinguithed according to the elements for fome are
:
called earthy devils, others fiery, fome airy, and others watery. Hence, alfo,
thofe four infernal rivers fiery Phlegethon, airy Cocytus, watery Styx, earthy
:
Acheron. Alfo, in the Gofpel, we read of comparifons of the elements as
:
hell fire, and eternal fire, into which th — e curfed fhall be commanded to go ;
and in Revelations, of a lake of fire ; and Ifaiah, — fpeaking of the damned,
fays that the Lord will finite them with corrupt air ; and in Job, they fhall
fkip from the waters of the fnow to the extremity of heat and, in the fame,
;
we read, that the earth is dark, and covered with the darknefs of death, and
miferable darknefs.
And thefe elements are placed in the angels of heaven, and the bleffed in-
telligences : there is in them a liability of their effence, which is an earthy
virtue, in which is the fledfafl feat of God. By the Pfalmift they are called
waters, where he fays—-“ Who rulefl the waters that are higher than the
—
heavens j” alfo, in them their fubtile breath is air, and their love is fhining
fire hence they are called in Scripture, t—he wings of the wind and, in an-
; ;
other place, the Pfalmift fpeaks ofthem thus “ Who makeft angels thy fpirits,
—
and thy minifters a flaming fire!” Alfo, according to the different orders of
fpirits or angels, fome are fiery, as feraphims, authorities, and powers
— —
earthy, as cherubim watery, as thrones and archangels airy, as dominions
and principalities.
And
f;
Chap. VI. TiAaLmI U S 1 MuA.NwIvC Mx,AxG^IxxC~.. 85
And do we not read of the original Maker of all things, that the earth (hall
—
be opened and bring forth a Saviour ? Likewife it is fpoken of the fame,
that he fhall be a fountain of living water, cleanfmg and regenerating ; and
the fame fpirit breathing the breath oflife and the.fame, according to Mofes
— ;
and Paul’s teflimony a confirmingfire.
That the elements are, therefore, to be foundevery where, and in all things,
after their manner, no man will dare to deny : firlt, in thefe inferior bodies,
feculent and grofs ; and in celeftials, more pure and clear ; but in fuper-
celeftials, living, and in all refpebts bleffed. Elements, therefore, in the
exemplary world, are ideas of things to be produced in intelligences, they
;
are diftributed powers in the heavens, they are virtues andin inferior bodies,
; ;
are grofs forms.
CHAP. VI.
THAT THE WISDOM OF GOD WORKS BY THE MEDIUM OF SECOND CAUSES (i. E. BY THE
INTELLIGENCES, BY THE HEAVENS, ELEMENTS, AND CELESTIAL BODIES) IS PROVED
BEYOND DISPUTE IN THIS CHAPTER.
IT is to be noted, that God, in the firft place, is the end and beginning of
all virtues : he gives the fieal of the ideas to his fervants, the intelligences y
who, as faithful officers, Jign all things entrufted to them with an ideal virtue
the heavens and ftars, as inftruments, difpofing the matter, in the mean while,
for the receiving of thofe forms which refide in Divine Majefty, and to be con-
veyed by ftars. And the Giver of forms diftributes them by the miniftry
of his intelligences, which he has ordained as rulers and comptrollers over his
works to whom fuch a power is entrufted, in things committed to them, that
;
fo all virtue in ftones, herbs, metals, and all other things, may come from the
intelligences, the governors.- Therefore the form and virtue of things come
—
firft from the ideas then from the ruling and governing intelligences—-they
—
from the afpetfts of the heavens difpofing and, laftly, from the tempers of
the86 talismanic magic. Part II.
the elements difpofed, anfwering the influences of the heavens, by which the
elements themfelves are ordered or difpofed. Thefe kinds ol operations, there-
fore, are performed in thefe inferior things by exprefs forms and in the hea-
;
vens, by difpofing virtues in intelligences, by mediating rules in the ori-
; ;
ginal caufe, by ideas and exemplary forms all which mult of neceffity agree
;
in the execution of the efledt and virtue of every thing.
There is, therefore, a wonderful virtue and operation in every herb and
Hone, but greater in a ftar beyond which, even from the governing intelli-
;
gences, every thing receives and obtains many things for itfelf, efpecially
from the Supreme Caufe, with whom all things mutually and exactly corref-
pond, agreeing in an harmonious confent.
Therefore there is no other caufe of the neceffity of effects, than the con-
nection of all tilings with the Firft Caufe, and their correfpondency with thofe
divine patterns and eternal ideas, whence every thing hath its determinate and
particular place in the exemplary world, from whence it lives and receives its
original being and every virtue of herbs, {tones, metals, animals, words,
;
fpeeches, and all things that are of God, are placed there.
Now the Firft Caufe (which is God), although he doth, by intelligences
and the heavens, work upon thefe inferior things, does fometimes (thefe me-
diums being laid afide, or their officiating being fufpended) work thofe things
—
immediately by himfelf which works are then called miracles. But whereas
fecondary caufes do, by the command and appointment of the Firft Caufe,
neceflarily a6f, and are neceffitated to produce their efledts if God {hall,
;
notwithftanding, according to his pleafure, fo difeharge and fufpend them that
they {hall wholly defift from the neceffity of that command, then they are
called the greateft miracles of God. For inltance : the fire of the Chaldean
furnace did not burn the children the fun flood flill at the command of
;
Jofliua, and became retrograde one whole day alfo, at the prayer of Ideze-
;
kiab, it went back ten degrees and when our Saviour Chrifl was crucified,
;
it became darkened, though at full moon.
AndChap. VII. TALISMANIC MAGIC. 87
And the reafon of thefe operations can by no rational difcourfe, no magic
or fcience, occult or profound foever, be found out or underttood but are to
;
be learned by Divine oracles only.* -
CHAP.
VII.
OF THE SPIRIT OF *TIIE WORLD.
NOW
feeing that the foul is the effential form, intelligible and incorrupti-
ble, and is the firft mover of the body, and is moved of itfelf but that the
;
body, or matter, is of itfelf unable and unfit for motion, and does very much
degenerate from the foul,, it appears that there is need of a more excellent
—
medium : now fuch a medium is conceived to be the fpirit of the world, or
that which fome call a quinteffence becaufe it is not from the four elements,
;
but a certain jirjl thing, having its being above and befide them. There is,
therefore, fuch a kind ofmedium required to be, by which celeftial fouls may be
joined to grofs bodies, and bellow upon them wonderful gifts. This fpirit is,
in the fame manner, in the body of the world, as our fpirit is in our bodies r
for as the powers of our foul are communicated to the members of the body by
the medium of the fpirit, fo alfo the virtue ofthe foul of the world is diffufed,
throughout all things, by the medium of the univerfal fpirit for there is
•,
nothing to be found in the whole world that hath not a fpark of the virtue
thereof. Now this fpirit is received into things, more or lefs, by the rays of
the liars, fo far as things are difpofed, or made fit recipients of it. By this
fpirit, therefore, every occult property is conveyed into herbs, Hones, metals,
and animals, through the fun, moon, planets, and through liars higher than
the planets. Now this fpirit may be more advantageous to us if we knew
how to feparate it from the elements j or, at lealt, to ufe thofe things chiefly
* Theforegoing Chapter, if well confidered, will open the intellefi to a more ealycomprehenfion ofthe
Magical Science of Nature, &c. ; and will facilitate, in a wonderful degree, our (ludies in thefe fublime
myfleriesv
which88 TALISMANIC MAGIC, Part II.
which are moft abounding’ with this fpirit. For thofe things in, which the
Ipirit is lefs drowned in a body, and lefs checked by matter, do much more
powerfully and perfectly afit, and alfo more readily generate their like for
;
in it are all generative and feminal virtues. For which caufe the alchymift
endeavours to feparate this fpirit from gold and filver, which, being rightly
feparated and extracted, if it (hall be afterwards projected upon any metal, turns
it into gold or filver which is no way impoflible or improbable, when we
;
conlider that by art that may be done in a fhort time, what Nature, in the
bowels of the earth (as in a matrix), perfects in a very long fpace of time.
CHAP
VIII.
or THE SEXES AND CHARACTERS IMPRESSED BY CELESTIALS UPON NATURAL THINGS.
ALL
ftars have their peculiar natures, properties, and conditions, the feals
and characters whereof they produce through their rays even in thefe inferior
things, viz. in elements, in Hones, in plants, in animals, and their members
i
whence every thing receives from an harmonious difpofition, and from its flar
Ihining upon it, fome particular feal or character ftamped upon it, which is
the lignificator of that ftar or harmony, containing in it a peculiar virtue,
different from other virtues of the fame matter, both generically, fpecifically,
and numerically. Every thing, therefore, hath its character impreffed upon
it by its Jiar for fome peculiar effeCt, efpecially by that ftar which doth
principallygovernit andthefe characters contain in them theparticular natures,
5
yirtues, and roots oftheir ftars, and produce the like operations upon other things
on which they are reflected and ftir up and help the influences of their ftars,
•,
whether they be planets, or fixed ftars and figures, or celeftial conftellations,
viz. as often as they fhall be made in a fit matter, and in their due and accuf-
tomed times which the ancient wife men (confidering fuch as laboured much
;
in finding out occult properties of things) did fet down, in writing, the
images of the ftars, their figures, feals, marks, characters, fuch as Nature her-
felf did defcribe by the rays of the ftars in thefe inferior bodies : fome in
* ftones,Chap. IX. TTAALLIISSMMAANNIICC MMAAGGIICC.. 89
ftones,fomein plants,fomein joints andknots oftrees and their boughs, and fome
in various members of animals. For the bay-tree, lote-tree, and marigold, are
folary herbs, and, their roots and knots being cut, they fhew the characters of
the fun and in ftones the characters and images of celeftial things are often
;
found. But there being fo great a diverfity of things, there is only a tradi-
tional knowledge of a few things which human underftanding is able to
reach therefore very few of thofe things are known to us, which the ancient
;
philofophers and chiromancers attained to, partly by reafon and partly by ex-
perience and there yet lie hid many things in the treafury of Nature, which
•,
the diligent fludent and wife fearcher fhall contemplate and difcover.
CHAP
IX.
TREATING OF THE VIRTUE AND EFFICACY OF PERFUMES, OR SUFFUMIGATIONS, AND VA-
POURS; AND TO WHAT PLANETS THEY ARE PROPERLY AND RIGHTLY ATTRIBUTED.
IT is necelfary, before we come to the operative or practical part of
Talifmanic Magic, to fhew the compofitions of fumes or vapours, that are
proper to the liars, and are of great force for the opportunely receiving of
—
celeftial gifts, under the rays of the ftars inafmuch as they ftrongly work
upon the air and breath for our breath is very much changed by fuch kind
;
of vapours, if both vapours be of the other like. The air being alfo, through
the faid vapours, eafily moved, or infeCted with the qualities of inferiors, or
celeftial (daily quickly penetrating our breaft and vitals), does wonderfully
reduce us to the like qualities. Let no man wonder how great things fuffumi-
gations can do in the air efpecially when they fhall, with Porphyry, con-
;
fider that, by certain vapours exhaled from proper fuffumigations, aerial fpirits
are raifed alfo thunder and lightnings, and the like as the liver of a
*, :
cameleon, being burnt on the houfe top, will raife fhowers and lightnings
;
the fame effeCt has the head and throat, if they are burnt with oaken wood.
There are fome fuffumigations under the influences of the ftars, that caufe
M
Book I. images,90 TALISMANIC MAGIC, Part II
images of fpirits to appear in the air, or elfewhere : for if coriander, fmallage,
henbane, and hemlock be made to fume, by invocations fpirits will foon come
together, being attracted by the vapours which are moft congruous to their
own natures hence they are called the herbs of the fpirits. Alfo it is faid,
;
that if a fume be made of the root of the reedy herb fagapen, with the juice
of hemlock and henbane, and the herb tapfus barbatus, red fanders, and black
poppy, it will likewife make flrange {napes appear but if a fuffume be made
;
of fmallage, it chafes them away, and deflroys their vifions. Again, if a
perfume be made of calamint, piony, mint, and palma chrifti, it drives away
all evil fpirits and vain imaginations. Likewife, by certain fumes, animals
are gathered together, and put to flight. Pliny mentions concerning the ftone
liparis, that, with the fume thereof, all beads are attracted together. The
bones in the upper part of the throat of a hart, being burnt, bring ferpents
together but the horn of the hart, being burnt, chafes away the fame like-
; ;
wife, a fume of peacock’s feathers does the fame. Alfo, the lungs of an afs,
being burnt, puts all poifonous things to flight and the fume of the burnt
;
hoof of a horfe drives away mice the fame does the hoof of a mule and
; ;
with the hoof of the left-foot flies are driven away. And if a houfe, or any
place, be fmoaked with the gallof a cultle-fjh made into a confection with
,
red ftorax, rofes, and lignum aloes, and then there be fome fea-water or blood
caft into that place, the whole houfe will feem to be full of water or blood.
Now fuch kind of vapours as thefe, we muft conceive, do infeCt a body, and
infufe a virtue into it which continues long,even as the poifonous vapour ofthe
peftilence, being kept for two years in the walls of a houfe, infeCts the inha-
bitants and as the contagion of pelt or leprofy lying hid in a garment, will,
-,
long after, infedl him that wears it.
Now
there are certain fuffumigations ufed to almoft all our inftruments.
of magic (of which hereafter), fuch as images, rings, &c. For fome of the
magicians fay, that if any one {hall hide gold,, or fllver, or any other fuch
like precious thing (the moon being in conjunction with the fun), and {hall
perfume the place with coriander fajfron henbane fmallage, and black
, , ,
poppy, of each the fame quantity and bruifed together, and tempered with
the;
Chap. IX. TALISMANIC MAGIC. 91
the juice of hemlock, that thing- which is fo hid fhall never be taken away
therefrom, but that fpirits fhall continually keep it and if any one fhall en-
;
deavour to take it away by force, they fliall be hurt, or ftruck with a frenzy.
And Hermes fays, there is nothing like the fume of fpermaceti for the rafting
up of fpirits therefore, if a fume be made of that, lig-num aloes, pepper-
;
wort, mulk, faffron, and red ftorax, tempered together with the blood of a
lapwing or bat, it will quickly gather airy fpirits to the place where it is ufed ;
and if it be ufed about the graves of the dead, itwill attrafil fpirits and ghofls
thither.
Now the ufe of fuffumigations is this : that whenever we fet about making
any talifinan, image, or the like, under the rule or dominion of any liar or
planet, we lhould by no means omit the making of a fuffumigation appro-
priate to that planet or conltellation under which we defire to work any effe6l
—
or wonderful operation ; as for inltance : when we direct any work to the
fun, we mutt fuffume with folary things if to the moon, with lunary things
;
and fo of the reft. And we muft be careful to obferve, that as there is a con-
trariety, or antipathy, in the natures ofthe ftars and planets and their fpirits,
—
fo there is alfo in fuffumigations : for there is an antipathy between lignum
aloes and fulphur frankincenfe and quickftlver and fpirits that are raifed by
j
the fume of lignum aloes, are laid by the burning offulphur. For the learn-
ed Proclus gives an example of a fpirit that appeared in the form of a lion,
furious and raging : by fetting a white cock before the apparition it foon
vanifhed away becaufe there is fo great a contrariety between a cock and a
;
lion and let this fuffice for a general obfervation in thefe kind of things.
We
fliall proceed with fhewing diftin6lly the compofttion of the feveral fumes
appropriated to the feven planets.
M
2 CHAP.1
92 TALISMANIC MAGIC. Part II,
.
CHAP. X.
OP TIIE COMPOSITION OP SOME PERFUMES APPROPRIATED TO THE SEVEN PLANETS,
THE SUN. O
WE
make a fuffumigation for the fun in this manner :
Take of faffron, ambergris, mufk, lignum aloes, lignum balfam, the fruit of
thelaurel, cloves, myrrh, and frankincenfe, ofeach a like quantity all ofwhich
;
being bruifed, and mixed together, fo as to make a fweet odour, mull be in-
corporated with the brain of an eagle, or the blood of a white cock, after the
manner of pills, or troches.
THE MOON.
3
For the moon, we make a fuffume of the head of a frog dried, the eyes of a
bull, the feed of white poppies, frankincenfe, and camphire, which muft be in-
corporated with mendruous blood, or the blood of a goofe.
SATURN. h
For faturn, take the feed of black poppies, henbane, mandrake root, load-
done, and myrrh, and mix them up with the brain of a cat and the blood
of a bat.
,
U
JUPITER.
Take the feed of afh, lignum aloes, dorax, the gum Benjamin, the lapis
lazuli, the tops of peacocks’ feathers, and incorporate with the blood ofa dork,
or fwallow, or the brain of a hart.
mars. S
.
Take uphorbium, bdellium, gum armoniac, the roots of both hellebores,
the loaddone, and a little fulphur, and incorporate them altogether with the
brain of a hart, the blood of a man, and the blood of a black cat»
VENUS.s ; ;
Chap. X. TALISMANIC MAGIC. 93
VENUS. 9
Take mulk, ambergris, lignum aloes, red rofes, and red coral, and make
them up with fparrow’s brains and pigeon’s blood.
MERCURY. 8
Take maftich, frankincenfe, cloves, and the herb cinquefoil, and the agate
{tone, and incorporate them all with the brain of a fox, or weafel, and the
blood of a magpie.
GENERAL FUMES OF THE PLANETS.
To Saturn are appropriated for fumes, odoriferous roots : as pepper-wort
root, & c., and the frankincenfe tree. To Jupiter , all odoriferous fruits : as
nutmegs, cloves, &c. To Mars , all odoriferous woods : as fanders, Cyprus,
lignum baifam, and lignum aloes. To the Sun , all gums : as frankincenfe,
maftich benjamin, ftorax, laudanum, ambergris, and mufk. To Venus
,
flowers as rofes, violets, faffron, and the lil<^. To Mercury, all the parings
:
of wood or fruit : as cinnamon, lignum caflia, mace, citron peel, and bay-
berries, and whatever feeds are odoriferous. To the Moon, the leaves of all
vegetables as the leaf indum, the leaf of the myrtle, and bay tree. Know,
:
alfo, that, according to the opinion of all magicians, in every good matter
(as love, good-will, &c.), there muft be a good perfume, odoriferous and pre-
—
cious and in evil matters (as hatred, anger, mifery, and the like), there
;
muft be made a ftinking fume that is of no worth..
The twelve Signs of the Zodiac alfo have their proper fuffumigations viz.,
Aries, myrrh Taurus, pepper-wort Gemini, majhch Cancer, camjihire
; ; ;
Leo, franhincenfe , Virgo, fanders ; Libra, galbanum ; Scorpio, oppoponax ;
Sagittarius, lignum aloes Capricorn, benjamin Aquarius, cuphorbium Pifces,
•>
red fiorax. But Hermes defcribes the moft powerful fume to be, that
which is compounded of the feven aromatics, according to the powers of the
feven planets : for it receives from Saturn, pepper-wort $ from Jupiter, nut-
meg
j94 TALISMANIC MAGIC, Part II.
meg-,; from Mars lignum-aloes from the Sun, maftich from Venus faf-
, ; ; ,
fron ; from Mercury , cinnamon ; and from the Moo n, myrtle.
By a clofe obfervation of the above order of fuffumigations, conjoined with
other things, of which we fhall fpeak hereafter (neceffary to the full accomplifh-
merit ofTalifmanic Magic), many wonderfuleffects may be caufed, efpecially if
we keep in eye what was delivered in the firft part of our Magic, viz. that the
foul of the operator mull go along with this otherwife, in vain isfuffumiga-
;
llon, feal, ring, image, [ii£ture, glafs, or any other inftrument of magic
:
feeing that it is not merely the difpofition, but the act of the — difpofition, and
We
firm and powerful intent or imagination, that gives the effect,. thall now
liaften to fpeak, generally, of the conftru&ion of rings magical, and their
wonderful and potent virtues and operations.
CHAP. XI.
OF THE COMPOSITION AND MAGIC VIRTUE OF RINGS.
RINGS, when they are opportunely made, imprefs their virtues upon us,
infomuch that they affeft the fpirit ofhim that carries them withgladnefs or fad-
nefs and render him bold or fearful, courteous or terrible, amiable or hateful
; ;
inafmuch, alfo, as they fortify us againft * ficknefs, poifons, enemies, evil fpirits,
and all manner of hurtful things and often, where the law has no effect, thefe
;
little trifles greatly aflift and corroborate the troubled fpirit of the wearer, and
help him, in awonderfulmanner, to overcome his adverfaries, while they do won-
der how it is that they cannot effect any hurtful undertaking againft him.
Thefe things, I fay, are great helps againft -Wrathful, vicious, wordly-minded
men, inafmuch as they do terrify, hurt, and render invalid the machinations of
thofe who would otherwife work our mifery or deftruftion. All which we are
neither afraidnor afhamed to declare, well knowing that thefe things will be
hid from the wicked and profane, fo as that they cannot draw the fame into
* The Author will engage to teach any that are curious in thofe Ihidies, the particular compofition of
Talifmanic Rings wherebytheymay be enabled tojudge themfelves ofthe effects that are to be produced
;
by them.
anyChap. XI, TALISMANIC MAGIC. 95
any abufe, or privy mifchief toward their neighbour we having referved fome
;
few things in this art to ourfelves—not willing to throw pearls before fwine.
And however Ample and plain we may defcribe fome certain experiments and
operations (fo as that the great-mouthed fchool philofophers may mutter or feoff
thereat), yet there is nothing delivered in this book but what may be, by an
underftanding thereof, brought into effeCt,. and, likewife, out of which fome
good may be derived. But to proceed.
The manner of making of thefe rings is thus - when any ftar afeends in
the horofeope (fortunately), with a fortunate afpeft or conjunction of the
moon, we proceed to take aJione and herb, that is under that ftar, and like-
wife make a ring of the metal that is correfponding to the ftar and in the
;
ring, under the ftone, put the herb or root, not forgetting to inferibe the
effect, image , name, and character, as alfo the proper fuffurne. But I fhail
fpeak more of thefe in another place, where 1 fpeak of images and characters.
Therefore, in making of rings magical, thefe things are unerringly to be ob-
—
ferved as we have ordered if any one is willing to work any effeCt or expe-
5
riment in magic, he muft by no means negleCt the neceffary circumftances
which we have fo uniformly delivered. I have read, in Philoftratus Jarchus,
that a Prince of the Indians bellowed feven rings, marked with the virtues and
names of the feven planets, to Appollonius, of which he wore one every day,'
diftinguilhing according to the names of the days by the benefit of which
-,
he lived above one hundred and thirty years, as alfo always retained the beauty
of his youth. In like manner, Mofes, the Lawgiver and Ruler of the He-
brews, being Ikilled in the Egyptian Magic, is faid, by Jofephus, to have
made rings of love and oblivion. There was alfo, as faith Ariftotle, among
We
the Cireneans, a ring of Battas, which could procure love and honour.
read, alfo, that Eudamus, a certain philofopher, made rings again!! the bites
of ferpents, bewitchings, and evil fpirits. The fame doth Jofephus relate of
Solomon. Alfo we read, in Plato, that Gygus, King of Lydia, had a
ring of wonderful and ftrange virtues the feal of which, when he turned
;
it towards the palm of his hand, no body could fee him, but he could fee all
things by the opportunity of which ring, he ravilhed the Queen, and flew
j,
the96 TALISMAN IG MAGIC. Part II.
the King his matter, and killed whomfoever he thought flood in his way and
;
in thefe villanies nobody could fee him and at length, by the benefit of this
;
ring, he became King of Lydia.*
CHAP. XII.
THAT THE PASSIONS OF THE MIND ARE ASSISTED BY CELESTIALS AND THAT CON-
STANCY OF MIND IS IN EVERY WORK NECESSARY.
THE paflions of the mind are much helped, and are helpful, and become
—
moft powerful, by virtue of the heaven, as they agree with the heaven either
by any natural agreement, or voluntary election for, as Ptolemy fays, he
;
who chufeth that which is the better, feems to differ nothing from him who
hath this ofNature. It conduceth, therefore, very much for the receiving the
benefit of the heavens, in any work, if we fliall, by the heaven, make our-
felves fuitable to it in our thoughts, affe&ions, imaginations, elections, deli-
berations, contemplations, and the like. For fuch like paflions vehemently
flir up our fpirit to their likenefs, and fuddenly expofe us, and our’s, to the
fuperior fignificators of fuch like paflions and alfo, by reafon of their dig-
;
nity and nearnefs to the fuperiors, do partake more of the celeftials than any
material things for our mind can, through imaginations or reafon by a kind
;
of imitation, be fo conformed to any ftar, as fuddenly to be filled with the
virtues of that ftar, as if we were a proper receptacle of the influence thereof.
Now the contemplating mind, as it withdraws itfelf from all fenfe imagina-
,
tion nature and deliberation and calls itfelf back to things feparated, effeCts
, , ,
divers things by faith, which is a firm adhetton, a fixed intention, and vehe-
ment application of the worker or receiver to him that co-operates in any
thing, and gives power to the work which we intend to do. So that there is
* We have above fliewn the powerand virtue of magical rings; butthe particular chara&ers, infcriptions,
andimagestobe made in, or upon them, we refer the ftudent tothat chapter treatingof “ The Compofition
of various Talifmacs in which we have defcribed exactly the exprefsmethods of perfe&ing them.
made,—
Chap. XIII. TALISMANIC MAGIC. 97
made, as it were, in us the image of the virtue to be received, and the thing'
to be done in us, or by us. We muft, therefore, in every work and applica-
tion of things, affe£t vehemently , imagine, hope, and believe ftrongly, for
that will be a great help. And it is verified amongft phyficians, that a ftrong
belief, and an undoubted hope, and love towards the phyfician, conduce much
to health, yea more fometimes than the medicine itfelf for the fame that the
;
efficacy and virtue of the medicine works, the fame doth the ftrong imagina-
tion of the phyfician work, being able to change the qualities of the body of
the fick, efpecially when the patient places much confidence in the phyfician,
by that means difpofing himfelf for the receiving the virtue of the phyfician
and phyfic. Therefore, he that works in magic muft be of a conftant belief,
be credulous, and not at all doubt of the obtaining of the effect for as a firm
;
and ftrong belief doth work wonderful things, although it be in falfe works
fo diftruft and doubting doth diffipate and break the virtue of the mind of the
worker, which is the medium betwixt both extremes whence it happens that
;
he is fruftrated of the defired influence of the fuperiors, which could not be
enjoined and united to our labours without a firm and folid virtue of our
mind.
CHAP. XIII.
HOW man’s MIND MAY BE JOINED WITH THE MIND OF INTELLIGENCES AND CELESTIALS,
AND, TOGETHER WITH THEM, IMPRESS CERTAIN WONDERFUL VIRTUES UPON INFERIOR
THINGS.
THE
philofophers, efpecially the Arabians, fay, that man’s mind, when
it is moft intent upon any work, through its paffion and effects, is joined with
the mind of the liars and intelligences, and, being fo joined, is the caufe that
fome wonderful virtue be infufed into our works and things and this, as be-
;
caufe there is in it an apprehenflon and power of all things, fo becaufe all
things have a natural obedience to it, and of neceffity an efficacy, and more
N
Book I. to9S TALISMANIC MAGIC. Part II.
to that which defired them with a ftrong defire. And according to this is
verified the art of characters, images, enchantments, and fome fpee^hes, and
many other wonderful experiments, to every thing which the mind affeCts.
By this means, whatfoever the mind of him that is in vehement love affeCts,
hath an efficacy to caufe love and whatfoever the mind of him that ftrongly
•,
hates, dictates, hath an efficacy to hurt and deftroy. The like is in other
things which the mind affeCts with a ftrong defire for all thofe things which
-,
the mind aCts, and dictates by characters, figures -words ffeeches geflures
, , , ,
and the lihe help the appetite of the foul, and acquire certain wonderful
,
virtues from the foul of the operator, in that hour when fuch a like appetite
doth invade it fo from the opportunity and celeftial influence, moving the
;
mind in this or that manner : for our mind, when it is carried upon the great
excefs of any paflion or virtue, oftentimes takes to itfelf a ftrong, better and
more convenient hour or opportunity which Thomas Aquinas, in his third
;
book againft the Gentiles, allows. So, many wonderful virtues both caufe
and follow certain admirable operations by great affeCtions, in thofe things
which the foul doth dictate in that hour to them. But know, that fuch kind
of things confer nothing, or very little, but to the author of them, and to
him who is inclined to them, as if he were the author of them and this is
;
the manner by which their efficacy is found out. And it is a general rule in
them, that every mind, that is more excellent in its defire and affeCtion, makes
fuch like things more fit for itfelf, as alfo efficacious to that which it delires.
Every one, therefore, that is willing to work in magic, muft know the
virtue, meafure order and degree of his own foul in the power of the
, ,
univerfe.
CHAP.Chap. XIV. TALISMANIC MAGIC. 99
CHAP. XIV.
SHEWING THE NECESSITY OF MATHEMATICAL KNOWLEDGE, AND OF THE GREAT POWER
AND EFFICACY OF NUMBERS IN THE CONSTRUCTION OF TALISMANS, &C.
THE
do6trines of mathematics are fo neceffary to and have fuch an affinity
with magic, that they who profefs it without them are quite out of the way,
and labour in vain, and {hall in no wife obtain their defired effeft. For what-
foever things are, and are done in thefe inferior natural virtues, are all done
and governed by number weight ?neafure, harmony motion, and light : and
, , ,
all things which we fee in thefe inferiors have root and foundation in them ;
yet, neverthelefs, without natural virtues of mathematical doctrines, only
—
works like to naturals can be produced
:
as.Plato faith a thing not partaking
of truth or divinity, but certain imag'es akin to them (as bodies going, or
fpeaking, which yet want the animal faculty), fuch as were thofe which,
amongft the ancients, were called Dedalus’s images, and uvro^aTcc, of which
Arillotle makes mention, viz. the three-footed images of Vulcan and Dedalus
moving themfelves which, Homer faith, came out of their own accord to the
;
exercife and which, we read, moved themfelves at the feaft of Hiarba, the
;
philofophical exercifer. So there are made glaffes (fome concave, others of the
form of a column) making the reprefentation of things in the air feem like
fhadows at a diftance of which fort Apollonius and Vitellius, in their books,
;
“ De Profpe6tiva,” and “ Speculis,” taught the making and the ufe. And.
we read that Magnus Pompeius brought a certainglafs, amongft the fpoils from
the Eaft, to Rome, in which were feen armies of armed men. And there are
made certain tranfparent glaffes, which (being dipped in fome certain juices of
herbs, and irradiated with an artificial light) fill the whole air round about
with vifions. And we know how to make reciprocal glaffes, in which the fun
fhining, all things which were illuftrated by the rays thereof are apparently
feen many miles off. Hence a magician (expert in natural philofophy and
mathematics, and knowing the middle fciences, confifting of both thefe, viz.
arithmetic, mufic, geometry, optics, aftronomy, and fuch fciences that are of
N
2 weights,100 TALISMANIC MAGIC. Fart II.
weights, meafures, proportions, articles, and joints knowing, alfo, mecha-
5
nical arts refulting from thefe) may, without any wonder, if he excel other
men in the art and wit, do many wonderful things, which men may much
admire. There are fome relics now extant of the antients, viz. Hercules and
Alexander’s pillars the gate of Cafpia, made of brafs, and fhut with iron
;
beams, that it could by no art be broken and the pyramis of Julius Casfar,
;
crefted at Rome, near the hill Vaticanus and mountains built by art in
;
the middle of the fea and towers, and heaps of hones, fuch as I have feen
;
in England, put together by incredible art. But the vulgar feeing any won-
derful fight, impute it to the Devil as his work or think that a miracle
;
which, indeed, is a work ofnatural or mathematical philofophy. But here it is
convenient that you know, that, as by natural virtues we collect natural virtues,
fo by abftra6led,mathematical, and celeftial, we receive celeftial virtues as mo-
:
tion, fenfe, life, fpeech,foothfaying, and divination, even in matterlefs difpofed,
as that which is not made by nature, but only by art. And fo images that
fpeak, and foretel things to come, are faid to be made as William of Paris
:
relates of a brazen-head, made under the rifing of Saturn, which, they fay,
fpake with a man’s voice. But he that will chufe a difpofed matter, and moll
fit to receive, and a moll powerful agent, fhall undoubtedly produce more
powerful effects. For it is a general opinion of the Pythagoreans, that, as
mathematical are more formal than natural, fo alfo they are more efficacious';
as they have lefs dependance in their being, fo alfo in their operation. But
amongfl all mathematical things, numbers as they have more of form in
,
them, fo alfo are more efficacious, as well to effect what is good- as what is
bad. All things, which were firfl made by the nature ofthings in its firfl age,
feem to be formed by the proportion of numbers for this was the principal
;
pattern i — n the mind of the Creator. — Hence is borrowed the number of the
elements hence the courfes of times hence the motion of the liars, and the
revolution of the heavens, and the Hate of all things fubfifl by the uniting
together of numbers. Numbers, therefore, are endowed with great and fuh-
lime virtues. For it is no wonder, feeing there are fo many occult virtues in
natural things, although of manifefl operations, that there fhould be in num-
bers—
;•
Chap. XIV. TALISMANIC MAGIC. { J1
bers much greater and more occult, and alfo more wonderful and efficacious
for as much as they are more formal, more perfect, and naturally in the celef-
tials, not mixed with feparated fubftances •, and, laftly, having- the greateft and
moft timple commixion with the ideas in the mind of God, from which they
receive their proper and moft efficacious virtues wherefore they alfo are of
,
moft force, and conduce moft to the obtaining- of fpiritual and divine gifts
as, in natural things, elementary qualities are powerful in the tranfmuting of
any elementary thing. Again, all things that are, and are made, fubfift by
—
and receive their virtue from numbers : for time confifts of numbers—and all
motion and aCtion, and all things which are fubjeCt to time and motion.
Harmony, alfo, and voices have their power by and confift of numbers and
their proportions and the proportion arifing from numbers do, by lines and
;
points, make characters and figures and thefe are proper to magical opera^-
— •,
tions the middle, which is betwixt both, being appropriated by declining to
the extremes, as in the ufe of letters. And laftly, all fpecies ofnatural things,
and of thofe which are above Nature, are joined together by certain numbers
5
which Pythagoras feeing, fays, that number is that by which all things fub-
fift, and diftributes each virtue to each number. — And Proclus fays, number
hath — always a being : yet there is one — in voice another in proportion of
them another in the foul and reafon and another in divine things. But
Themiftius, Boetius, and Averrois (the Babylonian), together with Plato, do
fo extol numbers, that they think no man can be a true philofopher without
therm By them ther — e is a way made for the fearching out and underftanding — of
all thingsknowable ; by them thenext accefs to natural prophecyingis had
and the Abbot Joachim proceeded no other way in his prophecies, but by
formal,numbers.
CHAP,.102 talismanic magic. Part II.
CHAP. XV.
the GREAT VIRTUES OF NUMBERS, AS WELL I.N NATURAL THINGS AS IN SUPERNATURAL.
THAT
there lies wonderful efficacy and virtue in numbers, as well to good
as to bad r the molt eminent philofophers unanimoufly teach efpecially
;
Hierom, Auftin, Origen, Ambrofe, Gregory ofNazianzen, Athanafius, BaSilius,
HilariuS, Rubanas, Bede, and many more conform. Hence Hilarius, in his
commentaries upon the Pfalms, tellifies that the feventy elders, according to
the efficacy ofnumbers, brought the Pfalms into order. The naturalnum — ber is
not here considered ; but theformal consideration that is in the number ; and
let that which we fpoke before always be kept in mind, viz,, that thefe powers
are not in vocal numbers of merchants buying and felling but in rational,
— 9
formal, and natural thefe are the diflin£t myfteries of God and Nature.
9
But he who knows how to join together the vocal numbers and natural with
divine, and order them into the fame harmony, ffiall be able to work and know
wonderful things by numbers in —which, unlefs there was a great myftery,
9
John had not faid, in the Revelation “ He that hath underftanding, let him
compute the number of the name of the beaft, which is the number of a
—
man and this is the moft famous manner of computing among!! the
Hebrews and Cabalifts, as we ffiall ffiew afterwards. But this you muft know,
that Simple numbers fignify divine things, numbers of ten celeftial numbers
— 9
of an hundred terreftrial numbers of a thoufand thofe things that ffiall be
9
in a future age. Befides, feeing the parts of the mind are according to an
arithmetical mediocrity, by reafon of the identity, or equality of excefs, cou-
pled together but the body, whofe parts differ in their greatnefs, is, accord-
9
ing to a geometrical mediocrity, compounded but an animal confifts of both,
9
viz. foul and body, according to that mediocrity which is Suitable to harmony.
Hence it is that numbers work very much upon the foul figures upon the
,
body, and harmony upon the whole animal.
CHAP-—
Chap. XVI. TALISMANIC MAGIC. 103
CHAP. XVI.
OF THE SCALE OF UNITY.
NOW
let us treat particularly of numbers themfelves ; and, becaufe num-
ber is nothing elfe but a repetition of unity, let us firft confider unity itfelf ;
for unity doth molt firnply go through every number, and is the common
meafure, fountain, and original ofall numbers contains every number joined
;
together in itfelf entirely the beginner of every multitude, always the fame,
;
and unchangeable whence, alfo, being multiplied into itfelf, produceth no-
;
thing but itfelf: it is indivifible, void of all parts. Nothing is before one,
nothing is after one, and beyond it is nothing and all things which are,
;
defire that one, becaufe all things proceed from one and that all things
;
may be the fame, it is neceifary that they partake of that one : and as all
things proceed of one into many things, fo all things endeavour to return to
that one, from which they proceeded it is necelfary that they fhould put'off
;
multitude. One,therefore, is referred to themoft high God,who, feeingheis one
and innumerable, yet creates innumerable things of himfelf, and contains them
—
within himfelf. There is—, therefore, one God one worl — d of the one God
one fun of the one world alfo one phoenix in the world one king amongft
— — —
bees one leader amongft flocks ofcattle one ruler amongft herds ofbeafts
and cranes follow one, and many other animals honour unity. Amongft the
members of the body there is one principal, by which all the reft are guided
;
whether it be the head, or (as fome will) the heart. There is one element,
overcoming and penetrating all things, viz. fire. There is onet — hingcreated of
God, the fubje6t of all xuondering which is in earth or in heaven it is actually
animal, vegetable, and mineral every where found, known by few, called by
;
none by its proper name, but covered with figures and riddles, without which
neither Alchymy, nor Natural Magic can attain to their complete end or per-
—
fection. From one man, Adam, all men proceeded from thatone, all became
—
mortal from that one, Jefus Chrijl they are regenerated and, as faith
, ;
St. Paul, one Lord, one faith, one baptifm, one God and Father of all, one
Mediator;
104- TALISMANIC MAGIC. Part II.
Mediator betwixt God and man, one moft high Creator, who is over all, by
all, and in us all. For there is one Father, God, from whence all, and we in
him one Lord Jefus Chrift, by whom all, and we by him one God Holy
; *,
Ghoft, into whom all, and we into him.
THE SCALE OF UNITY.
In the Jod. One Divine EfTence, the fountain of all virtuesand power,
Exemplary World, > whofename is exprerted with one moft fimple letter.
In the The One Supreme Intelligence, the firft creature, the fountain
Intelle&ual World, Soul of the World. of life.
In the
Celeftial World, The Sun. One King of Stars, fountain of life.
In the The One fubjeft, and inftrument of all virtues, natural and
Elemental World, Philofophers’ Stone. fupernatural.
Lefle In r t W h o e rld, The Heart. One firft living and laft dying.
In the Lucifer. One Prince of Rebellion, of Angels, and Darknefs.
Infernal World,
CHAP
XVII.
OF THE NUMBER TWO, AND SCALE.
THE
firft number is two, becaufe it is the firft multitude it can be mea-
;
fured by no number befides unity alone, the common meafure of all numbers
it is not compounded of numbers, but of one unity only ; neither is it called a
number uncompounded, but more properly not compounded. The number
three, is called the firft number uncompounded. But the number two is the firft
branch of unity, and the firft procreation and it is called the number of
;
fcience, and memory, and of light, and the number of man, who is called
another—
Chap. XVII. TALISMANIC MAGIC, 105
another, and the leffer world : it is alfo called the number of c—harity, and of
mutual love ; — of marriage, and fociety : as it is faid by the Lord “ Two fhall
be one flelh.” And Solomon faith, “ It isbetter that two be together than one,
for they have a benefit by their mutual fociety : if one fhall fall, he fhall be
fupported by the other. Woe to him that is alone becaufe, when he falls, he
;
hath not another to help him. And if two fleep together, they fhall warm one
—
another: how fhall one be hot alone ? And if any prevail againft him, two
refill him. — ” And it is called the number of wedlock, and fex ; for there are
two fexes mafculine and feminine. And two doves bring forth two eggs
;
out of the firfi of which is hatched the male, out of the fecond the female. It
is alfo called the middle, that is capable, that is good and bad, partaking ;
and the beginning of divifion, of multitude, and diftinfition and fignifies mat-
•,
ter. This is alfo, fometimes, the number of difcord, of confufion, of mis-
fortune, and uncleannefs whence St. Hierom, againft Jovianus, faith—“that
;
therefore it was not fpoken in the feco — nd day of the creation of the world.”
“ And God faid, that it was good ;” becaufe the number of two is evil.
Hence alfo it was, that God commanded that all unclean animals flrould go
into the ark by couples becaufe, as I faid, the number of two is a number of
;
uncleannefs. Pythagorus, as Eufebius reports, faid, that unity was God, and
a good intellect but that duality was a devil, and an evil intellect, in which
;
is a material multitude-: wherefore the Pythagorians fay, that two is not a
number, but a certain confufion of unities. And Plutarch writes, that the
Pythagorians called unity, Apollo and two, ftrife and boldnefs and three,
; ;
juftice, which is the higheft perfection, and is not without many myfteries.
Plence there were two tables of the law in Sinai—two cherubims looking to
—
the propitiatory in Mofes—-two olives dropping oil, in Zachariah two natures
in Chrift, divine and human hence Mofes faw two appearances of God, viz.
— : —
his face, and — back parts ; alfo — two Teftamcnts—two commands of l — ove two
firft dignities two firft people two kinds of fpirits, good and bad two in-
—
tellectual creatures, an angel and foul—two great lights—two folftifia two
—
equinoftials two poles—two elements, producing a living foul, viz. earth
and water.
Book Q THE
I,
<. ;
106 talismanic magic. Part II.
—
«
THE SCALE OF THE NUMBER TWO.
In the iT Jah The Names of God, expreiTed with two
Exemplary World, bn El Letters.
Intelled I l n ua t l he World, An Angel, The Soul; Two Intelligible Subftances.
In the The Sun, The Moon Two great Lights.
Celeftial World,
In the The Earth, The Water; Two Elements producing a living Soul.
Elementary World,
In the The Heart, The Brain; Two principal Seats ofthe Soul.
Lefler World,
In the Beemoth, Leviathan, Two Chiefs ofthe Devils.
Infernal World, weeping. gnafhingofTeeth; Two things Chriftthreatens to the damned.
CHAP. XVIII.
or THE NUMBER THREE, AND SCALE.
THE number Three, is an uncompounded n — umber, a holy number, a
number of perfection, a molt powerful number : for there are three perfons
in Gc>d there are three theological virtues in religion. Hence it is that this
;
number ccnduceth to the ceremonies of God and religion, that by the fo-
lemnity of which, prayers and facrifices are thrice repeated for corporeal
;
and fpiritual things confift of three things, viz. beginning, middle, and end.
By three, as Trifmegiftus faith, the world is perfected—harmony, neceility,
and order, i. e. concurrence of caufes (which many call fate), and the execu-
tion of them to the fruit, or increafe, or a due diflribution of the increafe.
The whole meafure of time is concluded in
—
three, viz. pad, prefent, and —to
come j— all magnitude is contained in three line, fuperfices, and body
every;
XVIII. TALISMANIC MAGIC. 107
c
A
every body confifts of three intervals,—le — ngth, breadth, and thicknefs. Har-
i . e y contains three confents in t — ime diapafon, hemiolion, , diatefleron.
Thww re alfo three kinds of fouls vegetative, fenlitive, and intellectual,
A ri as fuch, faith the Prophet, God orders the world by number, weight, and
immure; and the number three is deputed to the ideal forms thereof, as the
number two is theprocreatingmatter, and unit — y to God the maker of it—Ma-
gicians do conftitute three Princes of the world Oromafis, Mithris, Araminis
i. e. God, the mind, and the fpirit. By the three-fquare or folid, the three
numbers of nine, of things produced, are diftributed, viz. ofthe fuperceleftial
into nine orders of intelligences of celeftial, into nine orbs of inferiors, into
; ;
nine kinds of generable and corruptible things. Laftly, into this eternal orb,
viz. twenty-feven, all mufical proportions are included, as Plato and Proclus
do at large difcourfe and the number three hath, in a harmony of five, the
;
grace of the firft voice. Alfo, in intelligences, there are three hi — erarchies of
angelical fpirits. There are three powers of intellectual creatures memory,
mind, and will. There are three orders of the Hefted, viz. martyrs, confeffors,
and innocents. There are three quaternions of celeftial figns, viz. of fixed,
moveable, and common as alfo of houfes, viz. centres, fucceeding, and fall-
•,
ing. There are, alfo, three faces and heads in every fign, and three
Lords of each triplicity. There are three fortunes amongft the planets. In
the infernal crew, three judges, three furies, three-headed Cerberus : we read,
alfo, of a thrice-double Hecate. Three months of the Virgin Diana. Three
perfons in the fuper-fubftantial Divinity. Three times—of nature, law, and
grace. Three theological virtues—faith, hope, and charity. Jonah was three
days in the whale’s belly and fo many was Chrift in the grave.
;
O THE
2
r; ; ; ; ;
108 TALISMANIC MAGIC. Part II.
THE SCALE OF THE NUMBER THREE.
Or I i n gi t n h a e l The Father, Adai, The Holy Gholt; The Name of God with
The Son, three Letters.
World,
In the
Supreme Middle Lowell Three hierarchiesofAngels.
Intellectual
World, Innocents, Martyrs, of all ConfelTors Threedegreesofthe Blelfed.
In the Moveable, Fixed, Common; Three quaternions of Signs.
Celellial Corners, Succeeding, Falling Threequaternions ofhoufes.
World, Of the Day, Nodturnal, Partaking; Three Lords of triplicities.
In the
Elementary Simple, Compounded, Thricecompounded Three degree of elements.
World,
In the t T h h e e i h n e te a l d le , c i t n g w r h o i w c s h , T th h e e he b a r r e t a , ft, the wh f e e r a e t o i f s f T a h cu e lty be o l f ly g , en w e h r e at r i e on th is e ,Three parts, anfwering to
Lefler andthegenitalmembers,
World,
anfwering to thelife, anfwering to the
anfweringtheelemental
the threefold world.
intellectual world,celeftial world,
world;
In the Ale&o, Megera, Ctefiphone Three infernal Furies.
Infernal Minos, Acacus, Rhadamantus; Three infernal Judges.
World, Wicked, Apoftates, Infidels; Threedegreesofthedamned.
CHAP. XIX.
OF THE NUMBER FOUR, AND SCALE.
THE Pythagorians call the number Four, Te£tra6Iis, and prefer it before all
the virtuesofnumbers,becaufe it is the foundation and root ofall other numbers
whence, alfo, all foundations, as well in artificial things, as natural and divine,
are four fquare, as we fhall fhew afterwards and it fignifies folidity, which
;
alfo is demonftrated by a four-fquare figure *, for the number four, is the firft
four-;
Chap. XIX. TALISMANIC MAGIC. 109
four-fquare plane, which conlifts of two proportions, whereof the firft is ofone
to two, the latter of two to four and it proceed—s by a double proceftion and
;
proportion, viz. of one to one, and of two to two 'beginning' at a unity, and
ending at a quaternity : which proportions differ in this, that, according to
Arithmetic, they are unequal to one another but, according to Geometry, are
;
equal. Therefore a four-fquare is afcribed to God the Father and alfo con-
;
tains the myftery of the whole Trinity : for by its Angle proportion, viz,, by
the firft of one to one, the unity of the — paternal fubftance is fignified, from
which proceeds one Son, equal to Him by the next proceftion, alfo ftmple,
5
viz,, of two — to two, is fignified (by the fecond proceftion) the Holy Ghoft
from both that the Son be equal to the Father, by the firft proceftion and
;
the Holy Ghoft be equal to both, by the fecond proceftion. Hence that fuper-
excellent and great name of the Divine Trinity in God is written with four
letters, viz. Jod He, and Van. He, where it is the afpiration He, fignifies
,
the proceeding of the Spirit from both for He, being duplicated, terminates
;
both fyllables, and the whole name, but is pronounced Jova, as fome will,
whence that Jove of the heathen, which the antients did picture with four
ears whence the number four, is the fountain and head of the whole
\
Divinity. And the Pythagorians call it the perpetual fountain of Nature :
for there are four degrees in the fcale of Nature, viz. to be to live, to befen-
,
Jible, to underjland. There are four motions in Nature, viz. afcendant, de-
fendant, going forward, circular. There are four corners in Heaven, viz.
rifing, falling, the middle of the Heaven, the bottom of it. There are four
elements under Heaven, viz. fire, air, water, and earth according to thefe
;
there are four triplicities in Heaven. There are four firft qualities under Hea-
ven, viz. cold, heat, drynefs, and moifture from thefe are the four hu-
— ;
mours blood, phlegm, choler, melancholy. Alfo, the year is di — vided into
four parts, which are the fpring, furnmer, autumn, and winter : alfo the
wind is divided into eaftern, weftern, northern, and fouthern. There are, alfo,
four rivers in Paradife and fo many infernal. Alfo, the number four makes
;
up110 TALISMANIC MAGIC. Part II.
up all knowledge : firfi, it fills up every firnple progrefs of numbers with four
terms, viz. with one, two, three, and four, confiituting the number ten. It
fills up every difference of numbers : — the firfi even, and containing the firfl odd
in it. It hath in mufic, diatelferon the grace of the fourth voice alfo it
;
contains the inftrumen'; of four firings and a Pythagorian diagram, whereby
;
are found out firfi of all mufical tunes, and all harmony of mufic for double,
:
treble, four times double, one and a half, one and a third part, a concord of
all, a double concord of all, of five, of four, and all confonancy is limited
within the bounds of the number four. It doth alfo contain the whole of
Mathematics in four terms, viz. point, line , fuperfices, and profundity. It
comprehends all Nature in four terms, viz. fubfiance, quality, quantity, and
motion alfo all natural philofophy, in which are the feminary virtues of
;
Nature, the natural fpringing, the growing form, and the compofitum. Alfo
metaphyfics is comprehended in four bounds, viz. being effence virtue and
, , ,
ad ion. Moral philofophy is comprehended with four virtues, viz. prudence
,
j upice , fortitude , and te7iiperance. It hath alfo the power of jufiice : hence a
four-fold law— ofprovidence from God fatal from the foulofthe world of
, ; , ;
Nature from Heaven oiprudence, from man. There are alfo four judiciary
, ;
powers in all things being, viz. the intelletfi, difeipline, opinion, and fenfe.
Alfo, there are four rivers of Paradife. Four Gofpels, received from four
Evangelifts, throughout the whole Church. The Hebrews received the chiefeft
name of God written with four letters. Alfo, the Egyptians, Arabians, Per-
fians, Magicians, Mahometans, Grecians, Tufcans, and Latins, write the
—
name of God with four letters, viz. thus Thet, Alla, Sire, Orfi, Abdi, deog,
Efar, Deus. Hence the Lacedemonians were wont to paint Jupiter with four
wings. Hence, alfo, in Orpheus’s Divinity, it is faid that Neptune’s cha-
riots are drawn with four horfes. There are alfo four kinds of divine furies,
proceeding from feveral deities, viz. from the Mufes, Dionyfius, Apollo, and
Venus. Alfo, the Prophet Ezekiel faw four beafts by the river Chobar, and
four chernbims in four wheels. Alfo, in Daniel, four great beafis did afeend
from
lChap. XI^. TALISMANIC MAGIC. Ill
from the fea and four winds did fight. And in the Revelations, four beafts
*,
were full ofeyes, before and behind, {landing round about the throne of God
5
and four angels, to whom was given power to hurt the earth and the fea, did
Hand upon the four corners of the earth, holding the four winds, that they
ftiould not blow upon the earth, nor upon the fea, nor upon any tree.
THE112 TAI.ISMANIC MAGIC. Part II.
THE SCALE OF
The Name of In the original
God with four n 1 n > world,whence the
Setters, lawofProvidence.
Four triplicities, Seraphim, Dominations, Principalities, Innocents, In the intelledlual
orintelligiblehier- Cherubim, Powers, Archangels, Martyn, world, whencethe
archies, Thrones, Virtues, Angels, Confeffors. fatal law.
Fourangelsruling
over the four cor-
Michael, Raphael, Gabriel, Uriel.
ners ofthe world,
Four rulers ofthe DTd' AH3 D’ii’in
elements, Seraph, Cherub, Tharfis, Ariel.
Four confecrated The Lion, The Eagle, Man, A Calf.
animals,
Dan, Jehuda, Manafl'e, Reuben,
Four triplicitiesof
Affer, Ifachar, Benjamin, Simeon,
thetribesofIfrael,
Naphthalin, Zebulun, Ephraim, Gad.
Matthias, Simon, John, Thaddeus,
Four triplicitiesof
Peter, Bartholomew, Philip, Andrew,
the Apoftles,
Jacob the elder, Matthew, Jamestheyounger Thomas.
#
Four Evangelifls, Mark, John, Matthew, Luke.
Fourtriplicitiesof Aries, Gemini, Cancer, Taurus, In the celeftia!
figns,
Leo, Libra, Scorpion, Virgo, world,whereistire,
Sagittarius, Aquarius, Pifces, Capricornus. law of Nature.
The flarsandp'a-
Mars, and Jupiter, and Saturn, and ThefixedStars,
nets related to the the Sun, Venus, Mercury, and the Moon.
elements,
Four qualities of
the celeitial ele- Light, Diaphanoufnefs, Agility, Solidity.
ments,
m
Intheelementary,
Four elements,
Fire, Air, Water, Earth. where the law of
generationandcor-
Four qualities, Heat, Moillure, Cold, Drynefs. ruption is.
Four feafons, Summer, Spring, Winter, Autumn,
Four corners of
Eaft, Weft, North, South.
the world,
Fourperfectkinds
Animals, Plants, Metals. Stones.
ofmixed bodies,
Four kindsofani- Walking, Flying, Swimming, Creeping.
mals,Chap. XIX TALISMANIC MAGIC, 113
THE NUMBER FOUR.
What anfwers the
Seeds, Flowers, Leaves, Roots.
elementsinplants,
What in metals, Gold and iron, Copperandtin, Quickfilver, Lead andfilver.
What in ftones, Bright and barn Light and trans- Clear and con- Heavy and dark.
«ng> parent, gealed,
Four e m l a e n m . ents of The Mind, Spirit, Soul, Body. w I o n rld t , h v e iz. l m e a ff n e , r
from whom is
Four powers of The Intellect, Reafon, Phantafy, Senfe. the law of pru-
the foul, dence.
Four judiciary
Faith, Science, Opinion, Experience.
powers,
Fourmoralvirtues, Juflice, Temperance, Prudence, Fortitude.
The fenfes an-
fweringto theele- Sight, Hearing, Tafteand fmell, Touch.
ments,
Four elements of
Spirit, Flefh, Humours, Bones.
man’sbody,
A fourfold fpirit, Animal, Vital, Generative, Natural.
Four humours, Choler, Blood, Phlegm, Melancholy.
Four manners of
Violence, Nimblenefs, Dulnefs, Slownefs.
complexion,
Four princes of In the infernal
devils,ofFenfive in buty VNtnD world, whereis
the elements, Samael, Azazel, Azael, Mahazael. thelawofwrath
andpunifhment.
Four infernal Phlegethon, Cocytus, Styx, Acheron.
rivers,
Four princes of
p fp u ir r its a , ngl u e p s o o n f t t h h e e Oriens, Paymon, Egyn, Amaymon.
(world,
CHAP
Book I P114 TALISMANIC MAGIC Part II.
CHAP. XX.
OF THE NUMBER FIVE, AND ITS SCALE.
THE
number Five is of no fmall force for it confifts of the firft even, and
;
the firft odd ; as of a female and male : for an odd number is the male, and
the even the female whence arithmeticians call that the father, and this
;
the mother. Therefore the number five is of no fmall perfection or virtue,
which proceeds from the mixtion of thefe numbers it is, alfo, thejuft middle of
;
the univerfal number, viz. ten : for if you divide the number ten, there will be
nine and one, or eight and two, and feven and three,or fix and four, and every
collection makes the number ten, and the exaCt middle is always the number
five, and its equa-diftant and therefore it is called, by the Pythagorians, the
;
number of wedlock, as alfo of juftice, bec — aufe it divides the number ten in an
even fcale. There are five fenfes in man fight, hearing, fmelling, tailing,
—
and feeling five powers in the foul vegetative, fenfitive, concupifcible,
;
irafcible, and rational five fingers on the hand five wandering planets in the
; •,
heavens, according to which there are fivefold terms in every fign. In elements
there are five kinds of mixed bodies, viz. ftones, metals, plants, plant-animals,
—
animals and fo many kinds of animals as men, four-footed beafts, creep-
;
ing, fwimming, and flying. And there are five kinds by which all things are
made of God, viz. effence, the fame, another, fenfe, and motion. Thefwallow
brings forth but five young, which the feeds with equity, beginning with the
eldeft, and fo the reft according to their age. For in this number the father
Noah found favour with God, and was preferved in the flood of waters. In
the virtue of this number, Abraham, being an hundred years old, begat a fon
of Sarah (Sarah being ninety years old, and a barren woman, and paft child-
bearing), and grew up to be a great people. Hence, in time of grace, the
name of Divine Omnipotency is called upon in five letters in time of
5
nature, the name of God was called upon with three letters n® Sadai in time
;
of the law, the ineffable name of God was exprefled with four letters mrp, in-
stead ofwhich the Hebrews exprefs >nN Adonai in time ofgrace, the ineffable
;
name.
Chap. XXL TALISMANJC MAGIC. 115
name of God was written with five letters nwn* Jhefu, which is called upon
with no lefs myftery than that of three letters -ja».
THE SCALE OF THE NUMBER FIVE.
The Names of
God with five ivfo Eloim, In the exem-
letters. The Elohi, plary world.
Name ofChrifl: nt^rv Jhefu,
withfiveletters,
Spirits of theSpiritsofthefe-Spirits of the
Fiveintelligiblefirft hierarchy,condhierarchy,thirdhierarchy, Souls of celef-Heroes and In the intel.
fubflances. called Gods,orcalled Intelli-called Angels tial bodies, blefled fouls. le&ual world.
theTonsofGod,gences, which are fent,
Fivewandering
In the celeftial
liars, lords of Saturn, Jupiter, Mars, Venus, Mercury. world.
the terms, 1
Five kinds'of A
corruptible Water, Air, Fire, Earth, mixed In the elemen-
body. tary world.
things,
Five kinds of Plant-
Animal, Plant, Metal, Stone,
mixed bodies, animal.
Five fenfes, Tafte, Hearing, Seeing, Touching, Smelling. In the lefler
world.
A
Five corporealDeadly bitter- Horrible howl-Terrible dark- Unquenchable piercing In the infernal
torments, nefs, ing, nefs, heat, (link. world
CHAP. XXL
OF THE NUMBER SIX, AND THE SCALE.
SIX is a number of perfe&ion, becaufe it is the moft perfect in nature, in
the whole courfe of numbers, from one to ten and it alone is fo perfect that
;
ia the collection of its parts, it refults the fame, neither wanting norabound-
P 2
ins'—
;
116 TALISMANIC MAGIC. Part II.
ing for if the parts thereof, viz. the middle, third, and fixth part, which
;
are three, two, one, be gathered together, they perfectly till up the whole
body of fix, which perfection all the other numbers want. Hence, by the
Pythagorians, it is faid to be altogether to be applied to generation and mar-
riage, — and is called the fcale of the world ; for the world is made of the num-
ber fix neither doth it abound, nor is defective : hence that is, becaufe the
world was finifhed by God the fixth day for the fixth day God faw all things
•,
which he had made, and they were * very good therefore the heaven, and the
earth, and all the hoft thereof, were finifhed. It is alfo called the number of
man, becaufe the fixth day + man was created. And it is alfo the number of
our redemption •, for on the fixth day Chrift fuffered for our redemption :
whence there is a great affinity between the number fix and the crofs, labour,
and fervitude. Hence it is commanded in the law, that in fix days the manna
is to be gathered, and work to be done. Six years the ground was to be
fown and that the Hebrew fervant was to ferve his matter fix years. Six days
;
the glory of the Lord appeared upon Mount Sinai, covering it with a cloud.
The Cherubims had fix wings. Six circles in the firmament Artie, Antartic,
:
two Tropics, Equinoctial, and Ecliptical. Six wandering planets Saturn,
:
Jupiter, Mars, Venus, Mercury, the Moon, running through the latitude of
the Zodiac on both fides the Ecliptic. There are fix lubftantial qualities in the
—
elements, viz. ffiarpnefs, thinnefs, motion and the contrary to thefe dulnefs,
;
thicknefs, and reft. There are fix differences ofpofition : upwards, downwards,
before, behind, on the right fide, and on the left fide. There are fix natural
offices, without which nothing can be, viz. magnitude, colour, figure, interval,
Handing, motion. Alfo, a folid figure of any four-fquare thing hath fix
fuperfices. There are fix tones of all harmony, viz. five tones, and two half
tones which make one tone, which is the fixth.
*The fixthday, the Eternal Wifdom pronounced all things created byhisdivinehand to be “verygood.”
f Hence arofethe myfieryof thenumber ofthe beaft, fix hundred three fcore and fix, being thenumbei
qf aman DCLXVI,
SCALE;;
Chap. XXII. TALISMANIC MAGIC.
THE SCALE OF THE NUMBER SIX.
In the Names of fix
Exemplary D’n^irpm bN
letters.
World,
Six orders of
In the Domina- Angels, which
Intelligible Seraphim, Cherubim, Thrones, tions, Powers, Virtues are not fenttb
World,
inferiors.
Sixplanetswan-
In the dering through
Celeftial Saturn, Jupiter, Mars, Venus, Mercury, The Moon
;
the latitude of
World. theZodiacfrom
the Ecliptic.
In the Six fubftantial
Elemental Reft, Thinnefs, Sharpnefs, Dulnefs, Thicknefs, Motion qualities of the
;
World, elements.
L I e n ff t e h r e The Memory, Senfe, Motion, Life, EHence Six degrees of
World, Intelledl, the mind.
In the Six Devils, the
Infernal Adieus, Megalelius, Ormenus, Lycus, Nicon, Mimon ; authors of all
World, calamities.
CHAP XXIL
OP THE NUMBER SEVEN, AND THE SCALE.
THE
number Seven is ofvarious and manifold power for it confifts ofone
;
and fix, or of two and five, or of three and four ; and it hath a unity, as it
were the coupling* together of two threes : whence if we confider the feveral
parts thereof, and the joining together of them, without doubt we fhall confefs
that it is, as well by the joining together of the parts thereof as by its fulnefs
apart, moll full of all majefty. And the Pythagorians call it the vehiculum
of man’s life, which it doth not receive from its parts fo, as it perfects by its
proper118 TALISMAN1C MAGIC, Part XI,
proper right of its whole— for it contains body and foul for thebody confills
;
of four elements, and is endowed with four qualities : alfo, the number three
refpects the foul, by reafon of its threefold power, viz. rational, irafcible, and
concupifcible. The number feven, therefore, becaufe it confifts of three and
four, joins the foul to the body and the virtue of this number relates to the
;
generation of men, and it caufes man to be received, formed, brought forth,
nourifhed, live, and indeed altogether to fubfift : for when the genital feed is
received in the womb of the woman, if it remains there feven hours after the.
effufion of it, it is certain that it will abide there for good ; then thefirft feven
days it is coagulated, and is fit to receive the lhape of a man ; then it pro-
duces mature infants, which are called infants of the feventh month, i. e. be-
caufe they are born the feventh month after the birth, the feventh hour tries
;
no—
whether it will live or for that which will bear the breath of the air after
that hour, is conceived will live after feven days, it calls off the relics of the
;
navel after twice feven days, its fight begins to move after the light in the
; ;
third feventh, it turns its eyes and whole face freely after feven months, k
5
breeds teeth after the fecond feventh month, it fits without fear of falling
; ;
after the third feventh month, it begins to fpeak after the fourth feventh
;
month, it Hands ftrongly and walks ; after the fifth feventh month, it begins
to refrain fucking its nurfe after feven years, its firlt teeth fall, and new are
;
bred, fitter for harder meat, and its fpeech is perfected after the fecond fe-
;
venth year, boys wax ripe, and then it is a beginning of generation at the
;
third feventh year, they grow to men in ftature, and begin to be hairy, and
become able and ftrong for generation at the fourth feventh year, they ceafe
;
to grow taller in the fifth feventh year, they attain to the perfection of their
Hrength the fixth feventh year, they keep their lirength the feventh feventh
; •,
year, they attain to their utmoft difcretion and wifdom, and the perfebf age of
men but when they come to the tenth feventh year, where the number feven
is taken for a complete number, then they come to the common term of life—
the Prophet faying, bur age is feventy years. The utmoft height of a man’s
body is feven feet. There are, alfo, feven degrees in the body, which com-
plete the dimenfion of its altitude from the bottom to the top, viz. marrow,
bone, nerve, vein, artery, flelh, and fkin. There are feven, which, by the
Greeks,:
Chap. XXII. TALISMANIC MAGIC. 119
Greeks, are called black members : the tongue, heart, lungs, liver, fpleen,
and the two kidnies. There are, alfo, feven principal parts of the body : the
head, bread, hands, feet, and the privy members. It is manifeft, concerning
breath and meat, that, without drawingof the breath, the life doth not remain
above feven hours and they that are ftarved with famine, live not above feven
;
days.* The veins, alfo, and arteries, as phyficians fay, are moved by the ie-
venth number. Alfo, judgments in difeafes are made with greater manifefta-
tion upon the feventh day, which phyfi — cians call critical, i. e. judicial. Alfo,
of feven portions God creates the foul ; the foul, alfo, receives the body by
feven degrees. All difference of voices proceeds to the feventh degree, after
which there is the fame revolution. Again, there are feven modulations ofthe
voices ditonus, femiditonus, diatefferon, diapente with a tone, diapente with
:
a half tone, and diapafon. There are alfo, in celeftials, a moft potent power
of the number feven for feeing there are four corners ofthe Heaven diame-
;
trically looking one towards the other, which indeed is accounted a moft full
and powerful afpeft, and confifts of the number feven for it is made with
;
the feventh fign, and makes a crofs, the moft powerful figure of all, of which
—
we fhall fpeak in its due place ; but this you mult not be ignorant of, that
the number feven hath a great communion with the crofs. By the fame ra-
diation and nujnber the folftice is diftant from winter, and the winter equi-
no6tium from the furnmer, all which are done by feven figns. There are alfo
feven circles in the Heavens, according to the longitudes of the axle-tree.
There are feven ftars about the Artie Pole, greater and leffer, called Charles
Wain alfo feven ftars called the Pleiades and feven planets, according to
; ;
thofefeven days conflituting a v/eek. The Moon is the feventh of the planets,
and nextto us, obferving this number more than thereft, thisnumber difpenfing
the motion and light thereof for in twenty-eight days it runs round the com-
;
pafs of the whole Zodiac which number of days, the number feven with its
;
feven terms, viz. from one to feven, doth make and fill up as much as the
* There havebeenTome exceptions to this affirmation, one ofwhichfell under my notice of late years
Do&or EdwardSpry, ofPlymouthDock, Philofopher, Cabalift, and Phyfitian, lived upwards oftwo years
upon a.goofeberrya day in furnmer, and an oatcake andthree.glaiTes of white wine the reft of the feafon,
per day : this gentleman wasparticularly abftemious inhis diet.
feveral———
120 TALISMANIC MAGIC. Part II.
feveral numbers, by adding to the antecedents, and makes four times feven
days, in which the Moon runs through and about all the longitude and lati-
tude of the Zodiac, by meafuring and meafuring again with the like feven
:
days it difpenfes its light, by changing it for the firft feven days, unto the
;
middle as it were of the divided world, it increafes the fecond feven days it
;
fills its whole orb with light the third, by decreafing, is again contracted into
;
a divided orb but, after the fourth feven days, it is renewed with the latl
;
diminution of its light ; and by the fame feven days, it difpofes the in-
creafe and decreafe of the fea : for in the firft feven of the increafe of the
moon, it is by little and little leffened in the fecond, by degrees increafed
; ;
but the third is like the firfi, and the fourth does the fame as the fecond. It is
alfo applied to Saturn, which afcending from the lower, is the feventh planet,
which betokens reft to which the feventh day is afcribed, which fignifies the
;
feven thoufandth, wherein, as St. John fays, the dragon (which is the devil)
and fatan being bound, men (hall be quiet, and lead a peaceable life. And
the leprous perfon that was to be cleanfed, was fprinkled feven times with the
blood of a fparrow and Elifha the Pro—phet, as it is written in the fecond book
;
of Kings, faith unto the leprous perfon “ Go, and wafh t\yfelf feven times
in Jordan, and thy fielh (hall be made whole, and thou lhalt be cleanfed.”
Alfo, it is a number of repentance and rerniftion. And Chrift, with feven
petitions, finifhed his fpeech of our fatisfaCtion. It is called the number of
liberty, becaufe the feventh year the Hebrew fervant did challenge liberty for
himfelf. It is alfo moft fuitable to divine praifes } whence the Prophet faith
“ Seven times a day do I praife thee, becaufe of thy righteous judgme—nts.”
It is moreover called the number — of revenge, as fays the S—cripture “ And
Cain fhall be revenged fevenfold.” And the Pfalmift fay — s “ Render unto
our neighbours fevenfold into their bofom their reproach.” Hence there are
feven wickedneffes, as faith Solomon and feven wickeder fpirits taken, are
;
read of in the Gofpel. It fignifies, alfo, the time of the prefent circle, be-
caufe it is finiihed in the fpaee of feven days. Alfo it is confecrated to the
Holy Ghoft, which the Prophet Ifaiah defcribes to be fevenfold, according to
his gift, viz. the fpirit of wifdom and underftanding, the fpirit of counfel and
flrength, the fpirit of knowledge and holinefs, the fpirit of fear of the Lord,
which;;
Chap, XXII. TALISMANIC MAGIC. 1.21
which we read in Zachariah to be the/even eyes ofGod. There are alfo feven
angels, fpirits Handing in the prefence of God, as is read inTobias, and in the
Revelation feven lamps did burn before the throne of God, and feven golden
:
candlefticks, and in the middle thereof was one like unto the Son of Man, and
he had in his right hand feven liars. Alfo, there were feven fpirits before the
throne of God, and feven angels Hood before the throne, and there were given
to them feven trumpets. And he faw a Lamb, having feven horns and feven
eyes and he faw the book fealed with feven feals and when the feventh feal
; ;
was opened, there was made filence in Heaven.
Now,by all that has beenfaid, itis apparentthatthenumberfeven, amongftthe
other numbers, may be defervedlyfaidto bemoil full ofefficacy. Moreover,the
numberfevenhathgreatconformitywiththe numbertwelve for as three andfour
*,
make feven, fo thrice four makes twelve, which are the numbers of the celefiial
planets andfigns refulting from the fame root and by the number threepartak-
;
ing of the Divinity, and by the number four of the nature of inferior things.
There is in facred writ a very great obfervance ofthis number before all others,
and many, and very great are the myfleries thereof many we have decreed
:
to reckon up here, repeating them out of holy writ, by which it will eafily
appear that the number feven doth fignify a certain fulnefs of facred myfteries
for we read, in Genelis, that the feventh was the day of relt of the Lord
that Enoch, a pious holy man, was the feventh from Adam and that there
;
was another feventh man from Adam, a wicked man, by name Lamech, that
had two wives and that the fin ofCain fliould be aboliffied the feventh genera-
; —
tion, as it is written Cain fhall be puniffied fevenfold and that he who (hall
;
flay Cain, fhall be revenged fevenfold to which the matter of the hiftory col-
;
!e6ts that there were feven fins of Cain. Alfo, of all clean beafts feven, and
feven were brought into the ark, as alfo of fowls and after feven days the
;
Lord rained upon the earth and upon the feventh day the fountains of the
5
deep were broken up, and the waters covered the earth. Alfo, Abraham gave
to Abimelech feven ewe lambs and Jacob ferved feven years for Leah, and
•,
Book I. Q feven122 TALISMANIC MAGIC. Part II.
feven more for Rachel and feven days the people of Ifrael bewailed the death
;
of Jacob. Moreover we read, in the fame place, of feven kine and feven
*,
years of corn feven years of plenty, and feven years of fcarcity. And in
;
Exodus, the Sabbath of Sabbaths, the holy reft to the Lord, is commanded
to be on the feventh day alfo, on thefeventh day Mofes ceafed to pray. On
;
the feventh day there fliall be a folemnity of the Lord the feventh year
;
the fervant {hall go out free feven days let the calf and the lamb be with
•,
its dam the feventh year, let the ground that hath been fown fix years
;
be at reft the feventh day {hall be a holy Sabbath, and a reft the
; ;
feventh day, becaufe it is the Sabbath, {hall be called holy. In Leviticus, the
feventh day alfo {hall be more obferved, and be more holy and the firft day
;
of the feventh month {hall be a Sabbath of memorial feven days {hall the
;
facrifices be offered to the Lord feven days {hall the holy days of the Lord
;
be celebrated feven days in a year everlaftingly in the generations. In the
;
feventh month you fhall celebrate feafts, and {hall dwell in tabernacles feven
days feven times he fhall fprinkle himfelf before the Lord that hath dipped
;
his finger in blood he that is cleanfed from the leprofy, fhall dip feven times
;
in the blood of a fparrow feven days fliall {he be wafhed with running water
;
that is menftruous feven times he fhall dip his finger in the blood of a bul-
;
lock feven times I will finite you for your fins. In Deuteronomy, feven
j
people poffeffed the Land of Promife. There is alfo read, a feventh year of
remiflion and feven candles fet up on the fouth fide of the candlefticks.
;
And in Numbers it is read, that the fons of Ifrael offered up feven ewe lambs
without fpot and that feven days they did eat unleavened bread and that fin
; ;
was expiated with feven lambs and a goat and that the feventh day was ce-
;
lebrated, and holy and the firft day of the feventh month was obferved, and
;
kept holy and the feventh month of the Feaft of Tabernacles and feven
; j
calves were offered on the feventh day and Baalam erected feven altars feven
; ;
days Mary, the After of Aaron, went forth leprous out of the camp feven
;
days he that touched a dead carcafs was unclean. And in Jofhua, feven
priefts carried the ark of the covenant before the hoft and feven days they
;
went“
Chap. XXII. TALISMANIC MAGIC. 1 23
went round the cities and feven trumpets were carried by the feven priefts
; 5
and on the feventh day, the feven priefts founded the trumpets. And in the
book of Judges, Abeffa reigned in Ifrael feven years Sampfon kept his nup-
;
tials feven days, and the feventh day he put forth a riddle to his wife ; he was
bound with feven green withes feven locksofhis head were thaved off feven
; ;
years were the children of Ifrael oppreffed by the King of Maden. And in
the books of the Kings, Elias prayed feven times, and at the feventh time
beheld a little cloud feven days the children of Ifrael pitched over againff the
;
Syrians, and in the feventh day of the battle werejoined feven years’ famine
5
was threatened to David, for the people’s murmuring and feven times the
;
child fneezed that was raifed by Elilha and feven men were crucified toge-
5
ther, in the days of the firft harveft Naaman was made clean with feven
;
wafhings, by Elifha the feventh month Goliah was flain. And in Heller we
5
read, that the King of Perfia had feven eunuchs. And in Tobias, feven men
were coupled withSarah,the daughter ofRaguel. And, in Daniel, Nebuchad-
nezzar’s furnace was heated feven times hotterthan it was ufed to be and feven
;
lions were in the den, and the feventh day came Nebuchadnezzar. In the
book of Job, there is mentionoffeven fons of Job and feven day—s and nights
5
Job’s friends fat with him on the earth and, in the fame place In feven
;
troubles no evil lhall come near thee.” In Ezra, we read of Artaxerxes’s feven
counfellors and inthe fame place, the trumpet founded thefeventh month of
; ;
the Feali of Tabernacles was, in Ezra’s time, whillt the children of Ifrael were
in the cities and on the firft day of the feventh month, Efdras read the law
;
to the people. And, in the Pfalms, David praifed the Lord feven times in the
day ; filver is tried feven times ; and he renders to his neighbours fevenfold
into their bofoms. And Solomon faith, that Wifdom hath hewn herfelffeven
pillars *, feven men that can render a reafon ^ feven abominations which the
Lord abhors feven abominations in the heart of an enemy feven overfeers
; ; ;
feven eyes beholding. Ifaiah numbers up feven gifts ofthe Holy Ghoft and
;
feven women lhall take hold on a man. And in Jeremiah, if Ihe that hath
Q 2 borne124 TALISMANIC MAGIC. Part n:
borne feven, languiflies, (he has given up the gliod. In Ezekiel, the Prophet
continued fad for feven days. In Zachariah, feven lamps, and feven pipes to
thofe feven lamps and feven eyes running to and fro through the whole
;
earth and feven eyes on one done and the fad of the feventh day is turned
; ;
into joy. And in Micah, feven fhepherds are raifed againd the Adyrians.
Alfo, in the Gofpel, we read of feven bledings and feven virtues, to which
;
feven vices are oppofed feven petitions of the Lord’s Prayer feven words of
; ;
Chrid upon the crofs feven words of the bleded Virgin Mary feven loaves
•, ;
didributed by the Lord feven batkets of fragments feven brothers having
; ;
one wife feven difciples of the Lord who were ddrers feven water pots in
; ;
Cana of Galilee feven woes which the Lord threatens to hypocrites feven
; ;
devils cad out ofthe unclean woman, and feven wickeder devils taken in after
that which was cad out alfo, feven years Chrid was fled into Egypt and
; ;
the feventh hour the fever left the governor’s fon. And in the canonical
epidles, James deferibes feven degrees of wifdom and Peter, feven degrees of
;
virtues. And in the A6ts, we reckon feven deacons, and feven difciples ehofen
by the Apodles. Alfo, in the Revelation, there are many myderies relating
to this number for there we read of feven candledicks, feven dars, feven
;
crowns, feven churches, feven fpirits before the throne, feven rivers of Egypt,
feven feals, feven marks, feven horns, feven eyes, feven fpirits of God, feven
angels with feven trumpets, feven horns of the dragon, feven heads of the
dragon which had feven diadems, alfo feven plagues, and feven vials which
were given to every one of the feven angels, feven heads of the fcarlet bead,
feven mountains and feven kings fitting upon them, andfeven thunders uttered
their voices.
Moreover, this number hath much power; as in natural fo in facred cere-
monial, and alfo in other things therefore the feven days are related hither;
;
alfo the feven planets, the fe\en dars called Pleiades, the feven ages of
the world, the feven changes of man, the feven liberal arts, and as many
mechanic, and fo many forbidden feven colours, feven metals, feven holes
;
inChap. XXII. TALISMANIC MAGIC. 125
in the head of a man, feven pair of nerves, feven mountains in the city of
Rome, feven Roman kings, feven civil wars, feven wife men in the time of
Jeremiah, feven wife men of Greece alfo Rome did burn feven days by
;
Nero by feven kings were flain ten thoufand martyrs there were feven
; :
lleepers and feven principal churches of Rome.
;
THE12(5 TAUSMAKIO MAGIC, Part II
X
THE SCALE OF
In the
Original Ararita,
World,
In the
Vnd-t
Intelligible
Zaphiel, Zadkiel, Camael, Raphael,
World,
In the
rvipfHai >xny& pns ti’Dti’
World,
Saturn, Jupiter, Mars, The Sun,
The lapwing, The eagle, The vulture, The fwan,
In the The cuttle filh, The dolphin, The pike, The fea calf,
Elementary The mole, The hart, The wolf, The lion,
World, Lead, Tin, Iron, Gold,
The onyx, The faphire, The diamond, The carbuncle,
In the The right foot, Thehead, The right hand, The heart,
Lefler
World, The right ear, The left ear, The right noftril, The right eye,
In the Hell, The gates ofdeath, The Ihadow ofdeath, The pit of deftrudlion,
World, D2iTJ mio'pjn DimiTT nntiHto;;; ;;
Chap. XXII TALISMATfIC MAGIC, 127
THE NUMBER SEVEN,
Affer Eheie, ThenameofGodwithfevenletters.
^x’3Kn Vx'-pi Seyen angels which Hand in the
Haniel, Michael, Gabriel prefence ofGod.
5
run 3313 rD3^»
Venus, Mercury, The Moon Seven planets.
The dove, The flork. The owl Seven birds ofthe planets.
Thimallus, The mullet, The fea cat; Seven fifh ofthe planets.
The goat, The ape, Cat; Seven animals of the planets.
Copper, Quickfilver, Silver Seven metals of the planets.
The emerald, The achates. Chryftal Seven Rones ofthe planets.
The privy members, The lefthand, The left foot Seven integral members difiributed
to the planets.
The left noftril, The mouth, The lefteye ; Seven hole t s o o t f he th pl e an h e e t a s d . diftributed
Sevenhabitationsofinfernals,which
The Clay ofdeath, Perdition, Thedepthoftheearth; Rabbi Jofeph of Caflilia, the Ca-
tVntO'D rax balift, defcribes in the garden of
nuts.
CHAP128 TALISMANIC MAGIC, Part II.
CHAP. XXIII.
OP THE NUMBER EIGHT, AND THE SCALE.
THE
Pythagorians call Eight the number ofjuftice, and fulnefs : firft, be-
caufe it is firft of all divided into numbers equally even, viz. into four and
;
that divifion is, by the fame reafon, made into twice two, viz. twice two
twice and by reafon of this equality of divifion it took to itfelf the name of
’,
juftice. But the other received the name of fulnefs, by reafon of the contex-
ture ofthe corporeal folidity, fince the firft makes a folid body. Hence that
cuftom of Orpheus fwearing by the eight deities, if at any time he would be-
—
feech Divine juftice, whofe names are thefe : Fire, Water, Earth, the
Heaven, Moon, Sun, Phanes, and the Night. There are only eight vifible
fpheres of the heavens. Alfo, by it the property of corporeal nature is figni-
fied, which Orpheus comprehends in eight of his fea fongs : this is alfo called
the covenant, or circumcifion, which was commanded to be done by the Jews
the eighth day.
There were alfo, in the old law, eight ornaments of the prieft, viz. a breaft-
plate, a coat, a girdle, a mitre, a robe, an ephod, a girdle of the ephod,
and a golden plate. Hither belongs the number to eternity, and the end of
the world, becaufe it follows the number feven, which is the myftery of time.
Hence, alfo, the number of blefl'ednefs, as you may fee in Matthew. It is
alfo called the number of fafety, and confervation for there were fo many
;
fouls of the fons of Jefle, from which David was the eighth.
THEChap. XXIII TiXISMANIC MAGIC. 129
THE SCALE OF THE NUMBER EIGHT.
The name
In the
of God Eloa Vadaath D^T) Jehova Vedaath nj7!T) miT original
with eight
world.
letters,
V
Eight re- Inherit- Incorrup- Thevifion A king- In the in-
wards of Power, Victory, Grace, Joy; telligible
ance, tion, ofGod, dom,
theblefled, world.
Eightvifi-Theftarry Thehea- The hea- The hea- The hea-The hea- The hea- Thehea- In the ce-
blehea- ven of ven of ven of ven of the ven of ven of ven of leltial
heaven,
vens, Saturn, Jupiter, Mars, Sun, Venus, Mercury, theMoon; world.
Eightpar-The dry The cold- The The heat Theheat The The dry- The cold- Intheele-
ticular nefs ofthe nefs of moifture moifture nefs of nefs of mentary
offire, ofair.
qualities, earth, water, ofair, ofwater, fire, earth; world.
They
They that
ki E n i d g s ht of Thepeace an h d ung th e i r rdThemeek, w pe h r i f c e h cut a e r d e Pure in Merciful, Poor in % Mourners; I l n efl t e h r e
blefled makers, for righte- heart. fpirit,
men, afterright- oufnefs world.
eoufnefs,
fake,
Eight pu-
nifhments Judg- Thewrath Indigna- Tribula- In the
of the Prifon, Death, ment, ofGod, Darknefs, tion, tion, Anguifh; infernal
world.
damned.
Book L R CHAP; : > - v " v
130 TALISMANIC MAG1Q. Part 11.
;
CHAP. XXIV.
01r TIIE NUMBER NINE, AND THE SCALE.
THERE
are nine orders ofblefled angels, viz,. Seraphim, Cherubim, Thrones,
Dominations, Powers, Virtues, Principalities, Archangels, and Angels, which
Ezekiel figures out by nine Hones, which are the fapphire, emerald, carbuncle,
beryl, onyx, chryfolite, jafper, topaz, and fardis. This number hath alfo a
great and occult myftery ofthe crofs for the ninth hour our Lord Jefus Chrift
;
breathed out his fpirit. The aflrologers alfo take notice of the number nine in
the ages of men, no otherwife than they do of feven, which they call climac-
terical years, which are eminent for fome remarkable change. Yet fometimes
it fignifies imperfeCtnefs and incompletenefs, becaufe it does not attain to the
perfection of the number ten, but is lefs by one, without which it is deficient,
as Auftin interprets it of the ten lepers. Neither is the longitude of nine
cubits of Og, King of Bafan, who is a type of the devil without a
myftery.
THEChap. XXIV, TALISMANIC MAGIC, 131
THE SCALE OF THE NUMBER NINE.
Thename
In the
of God Jehovah Sabboath, Jehovah Zidkenu, Elohim Gibor,
original
with nine niias mn> np-ufmrv '"PD’J D'HlVx world.
letters,
Nine
Sera- Che- Domina- Principa- Arch-
quires of Thrones, Powers Virtues, Angels;
phim, rubim, tions, lities, angels,
angels, In the
Nine intelligible
angels Merat- Opha- Ra- world.
Zaphkiel, Zadkiel, Camael Haniel, Michael, Gabriel;
ruling the tron, niel, phael,
heavens,
The The
Nine The The The The The The The In the
fphere fphere
moveable primurn Harry fphere of fphere of of ofthe fphere of fphere of fphere of celeftial
fpheres, mobile,heaven, Saturn, Jupiter, Mars, Sun, Venus, Mercury, theMoon; world.
Nine
ftones re-
prefenting Eme- Carbun- Chryfb- In theele-
Saphire Beryl, Onyx, Jafper, Topaz, Sardis; mentary
the nine rald, cle, lite,
quiresof world.
angels,
Nine
fenfes, in- Memo- Cogita- Imagina- Common Hear- Touch- In the
w o a u r t d wa a r n d d ry* tive, tive, fenfe, ing* Seeing, Smelling, Tailing, ing; w l o e r f l f d er .
together,
Furies
Nine Falfe Spirits Veffels of Avengers Jug- Airy fowing Sifters or Tempters, In the
orders of Spirits, of iniquity, ofwicked- glers, Powers mif- triers, or infernal
devils, lying, nefs, enfnarers; world.
chief,—
132 TALISMANIC MAGIC. Part II.
CHAP. XXV.
OF THE NUMBER, TEN, AND THE SCALE,
THE number Ten is called every number, or an univerfal number, com-
plete, fignifying the full courfe of life for beyond that we cannot number
;
but by replication and it either implies all numbers within itfelf, or explains
;
them by itfelf, and its own, by multiplying- them wherefore it is accounted
;
to be of manifold religion and power, and is applied to the purging of fouls.
Hence the antients called ceremonies Denary, becaufe they were to be expiated
and to offer facrifices, and were to abflain from fome certain things for ten days.
There are ten fanguine parts of man the menftrues, the fperm, the pla-
:
fonatic fpirit, the mafs, the humours, the organical body, the vegetative part,
the fenfitive part, reafon, and the mind. There are, alfo, ten fimple integral
parts confiituting man the bone, cartilage, nerve, fibre, ligament, artery,
vein, membrane, flefh, and fldn. There are, alfo, ten parts of which ,a man
confilfs intrinfically : the fpirit, the brain, the lungs, the heart, the liver, the
gall, the fpleen, the kidnies, the teflicles, and the matrix. There are ten
curtains in the temple, ten firings in the pfaltery, ten mufical inftruments with
which the pfalms-were fung, the names whereof were neza, on which their
odes were fung nablum the fame as organs mizfnor, on which the Pfalms
; , ; ;
/fr, on which the Canticles •, tehila , on which orations ; beracha , on which be-
nedictions halel on which praifes hodaia on which thanks afre on which
; , •, , •, ,
the felicity of any one hallelujah on which the praifes ofGod only, and con-
; ,
templations. There were alfo ten fingers of pfalms, viz. Adam Abraham
, ,
Melchifedech Mofes Afaph David Solomon and the three fons ofChora.
, , , , ,
There are, alfo, ten commandments. And the tenth day after the afcenfion
of Chrifi, the Holy Ghoft came down. Laftly, this is the number, in which
Jacob, wreftling with the Angel all night, overcame, and, at the rifing of the
fun, was bleffed, and called by the name of Ifrael. In this number, Jofhua
overcame thirty-one kings and David overcame Goliah and the Philifiines
; ;
and Daniel efcaped the danger of the lions. This number is alfo circular, as
unity becaufe, being heaped together, returns into a unity, from whence it
;
bad its beginning and it is the end and perfection of all numbers, and the
;
begin-;
Chap. XXV. TALrsMANic magic. 133
beginning- of tens. As the number ten flows back into a unity, from whence
it proceeded, fo every thing that is flowing is returned back to that from which
it had the beginning of its flux : fo water returns to the fea, from whence it
had its beginning ; the body returns to the earth, from whence it was taken •,
timereturns into eternity, from whence it flowed the fpirit(hall return to God,
who gaveit and, laftly, every creaturereturns to nothing, from whence it was
;
created.* Neither is it fupported but by the word of God, in whom all things
are hid, and all things with the number ten, and by the number ten, make a
round, as Proclus fays, taking their beginning from God, and ending in him.
God, therefore (that firfl unity, or one thing), before he communicated himfelf
to inferiors, diffufed himfelffirfl into the firfl; ofnumbers, viz,, the number three
then into the number ten, as into ten ideas and meafures of making all num-
bers and all things, which the Hebrews call ten attributes, and account ten
divine names from which caufe there cannot be a further number. Hence all
;
tens have fome divine thing- in them, and in the law are required as his own,
together with the firfl fruits, as the original of all things and beginning ofnum-
bers, and every tenth is as the end given to him, who is the beginning and end
of all things.
SCALE OF THE NUMBER TEN.
* At the laft, the elements give up what they have ever received ; the fea gives up her dead, the fire
gives upits fuel ; the earth gives up thefeminal virtue, &c. ; andthe airgivesup whatever voice, found, of
impreflion ithas received, fo that not an oath, lie, or fecretblafphemy,butwhat willappear as clear as noon-
day light at the great day of God.
THE134 TALISMANIC MAGIC. Part II
THE SCALE OF
m
In the original ' irvn in > NH INI
The name of Jehovah of ten letters colledted, The name ofJehovah often letters,
mm
nriN DTtVRmm bn muD’n^N
Eheie, Jod Jehovah, Jehovah Elohim, El, Elohim Gibor,
“im nonn mo “pn mnj
Kether, Hochmah, Binah, Hefed, Geburah,
Seraphim, Cherubim, Thrones, Dominations, Powers,
In the intelli-
gible world, Hajothhakados, Orphanim, Aralim, Hafmallim, Seraphim,
Merattron, Jophiel, Zaphkiel, Zadkiel, Camael,
Refchith hagalla- Mafloth, the
In the celeltial lim, the primum fphere of the Sabbathi, the Zedeck, the Madim,thefphere
world. fphere of Saturn,fphere of Jupiter, ofMars,
mobile, Zodiac,
In the element- A dove. A lizard, A dragon, An eagle, A horfe,
ary world,
In the lefler
Spirit, Brain, Spleen, Liver, Gall,
world,
In the infernal Revengers of
world, Falfe gods, Lying fpirits. VelTelsofiniquity, wickednels, Jugglers,; ;; ;;;
Chap. XXV. TALISMANIC MAGIC. 135
THE NUMBER TEN.
an iv ThenameofGod
Extended, The name Elohim Sabaoth with ten letters.
rr^x niN32fmn* Ten names of
Eloha, Jehovah Sabaoth, Elohim Saboath, Sadai, Adonai melech God.
mxsn *71D> nn'?o Ten Sephiroth.
Tiphereth, Nezah, Hod, Jefod, Malchuth
;
Tenorders of the
Virtues, Principalities, Archangels, Angels, Bleffed fouls bleffed, according
to Dionyfius.
T en ordersof the
bleffed, according
Malachim, Elohim, Ben Elohim, Cherubim, Iflim
tothetraditionsof
-men.
Raphael, Haniel, Michael, Gabriel, The foul of Ten angelsruling.
Mefliah
;
Schemes,the Cochab, the Levanah, the Holom Jelbdoth,
Noga, the fphere Tenlpheresofthe
fphere ofthe fphere of Mer- fphereof the the fphere of the
of Venus, world.
Sun, cury, Moon, elements;
Lion, Man, The fox. Bull, Lamb Tenanimalsconse-
cratedto thegods.
Heart, Kidnies, Lungs, Genitals, Matrix Ten parts intrin-
; fical of man.
Furies, the femi- Tempters, or en- Wicked fouls Ten orders of the
Airy powers, Sifters, or triers,
naries ofevil. fnarers, bearing rule damned.
CHAP,;
136 TALISMANIC MAGIC, Part II.
CHAP. XXVI.
OF THE NUMBERS ELEVEN AND TWELVE, WITH THE CABALISTICAL SCALE.
THE number Eleven, as it exceeds number ten, which is the number of
the commandments, fo it falls ihort of the number Twelve, which is of grace
and perfection therefore it is called the number of fins, and the penitent.
;
Now the number twelve is divine, and that whereby the celeltials are mea-
fured it is, alfo, the number of figns in the Zodiac, over which there are
twelve
* The ufe ofthefe Scales, in the compofition ofTalifmans, Seals, Rings, &c., mult be obvious to every
ftudent upon infpeftion, and are indifpenfably neceflary to the producing of any effeft whatever that the
artift may propofe tohimfelf ; for, as we have before obferved, all things were formed according to the pro-
portion ofnumbers, this feeming to be the principal pattern in the mind of the Creator therefore, when at
;
any time we fet about any work or experiment in Celeftial Magic, weare to have efpecial regard to the rule
of numbers and proportions. For example, if we would obtain the celeftial influence of any ftar, we are,
firft ofall, to obferve at what timethatflaris powerful in the heavens, 1 mean in good afpedt withthe bene-
fices, and rulingin the dayand hour appropriated to the planet, and in fortunate places of the figure ; then
we are to obferve what divine names are ruling the intelligences, or fpirits, to which thefaidplanets are fub-
jedt with theircharadters(which youmay fee at large in the MagicalTables ofNumbers) ; then,byreferring
to the above Tablesof the Scales, we may fee, by infpedlion, to what numbers are attributed divine names,
— — —
and, under them, the orders of the intelligences the heavenly fpheres elements and their propetties ani-
mals, metals, and ltones — powers ofthe foul — fenfesof man — virtues — the princes of theevil fpirits — places
— — —
ofpunifhment degreesofthe damned fouls degrees oftorments hereafter and every thing that is either
—
in heaven,or earth, or hell ; all our fenfes, motions, qualities, virtues, words, or works, are fubmitted to
the proportions of numbers, as you may fee fully exemplified in the different Scales of the Numbers
and all things that are knowable are demonllrable by them, and are attributed to them therefore great is
;
the knowledge and wifdom to be derived from numbers. Therefore the artiff muff be well acquainted
—
with their virtues and properties by them there is a way open for the knowing and underftanding of all
things therefore let him diligently contemplate thefe Scales, and likewife what we have fet down in
;
our fourteenth and fifteenth Chapters preceding the Scales, where we have, upon good authority,
explained fuffkiently the extent and force of formal numbers, which ought to be well underftood and
attentively confidered, as the ground and foundation of all our operations in this fcience, without which
we are defrauded of the defired effedt : therefore whenever we intend to fet about any experiment,
whether it be an image, or ring, or tablet, oi mirror, oramulet, or any otherinftrument, we are to note firff
theiite, order, number, and government of the intelligenceand his planet, hismeafure oftime, revolution in
the heavens, Sic. ; likewife wearetoengrave or writeupon it its number, intelligence, orfpirit, either for a
good or bad effedt, with the fuitable characters andtables likewife the effedt defired, with the divine names
;
congruentthereto fothat our operations maybe ffrong, powerful, and fuitable totheconftellationand ftar,
;
both in time, number, and proportion with adue and attentive obfervation of all that wehavewrittencon-
j
cerningChap. XXVI. TALISMANIC MAGIC. 137
<
twelve angels as chief, fupported by the irrigation of the great name of God.
In twelve years, alfo, Jupiter perfects his courfe and the Moon daily runs
;
through twelve degrees. There are, alfo, twelve chiefjoints in the body ofman,
viz. in hands, elbows, fhoulders, thighs, knees, and vertebra ofthe feet. There
is, alfo, a great power of the number twelve in divine myfteries. God chofe
twelve families of Ifrael* and fet over them twelve princes fo many Hones
;
were placed in the midft of Jordan and God commanded that fo many Ihould
;
be fet on the breaft of the prieft. Twelve lions did bear the brazen fea that
was made by Solomon there were fo many fountains in Helim and fo
; ;
many Apoflles of Chriffc fet over the twelvetribes and twelve thoufand people
;
were fet apart and chofen.
cerning this, withoutwhichall ouroperations could neverbebrought to have the effeCt defired ; andweare
tomind that whenever fuch aninllrumentis perfected, that it is the more powerful when the planet or con-
ftellation (underwhichitwasconftruCted) is ruling and potent in the Heavens ; for at that time, whatever
wedefireto bring to perfection bythefaid Talifman, as amedium and inftrument, (hallbyno means be pre-
ventedor hindered. Therefore take this as a general rule, that all magical inftruments whatfoeverhave no
powerin themfelves, further than as they are formed under the influences, and according to the times and
numbers of their proper ftars and conftellations ; hence is derived the title we give this Book, viz. the:
Conjlellatory Art, or Talifmanic Magic. Thofe who would further confider the power, virtue, extent, and
harmony of numbers, let them read Pythagoras, Plato, Averroena, Averroes, &c. who all agree in the
virtueslyinghid in numbers andwithout the knowledge ofwhich, no man can be a true philofopher.
;13S TAUSMANIC MAGIC* Part II
THE SCALE OF
!'h G e od nam wi e t s h -oi Kin nra t!*rprr
twelve letters, Holy, BlelTed, He,
Thegreatname
returned back
intotwelveban- mn» inrv nnv »mn nnrt vnrt
ners,
T
welve orders
of blelTed Ipi- Seraphim, Cherubim, Thrones, Dominations, Powers, Virtue?,
rits,
Twelve angels
V
ruling over the Malchidial, Afmodel, Ambriel, Muriel, erchiel, Hamaliel,
twelve figns.
Twelve tribes, Dan, Ruben, Judah, ManalTeh, Afher, Simeon,
Twelve pro-
Malachi, Haggai, Zachariah, Amos, Hofea, Micba,
phets,
Twelve apof-
Matthias, Thaddeus, Simon, John, Peter, Andrew,
tles,
T
welve figns
Aries, Taurus, Gemini, Cancer, Leo, Virgo,
oftheZodiac,
Twelve months March, April, May, June, July, Augud,
Twelve plants, Sang, Upright ver- Bending ver- Comfrey, Ladies’ feal, Calamint,
vain, vain,
Twelve ftones, Sardonius, A cornelian. Topaz, Calcedony, Jafper, Emerald,
Twelve princi-
Head, Neck, Arms, Bread, Heart, Belly,
pal members,
Twelvedegrees
of the damned, Falfegods, Lyingfpirits, Veffe
q
l
u
s
it
o
y
f
,
ini- R
w
e
i
v
c
e
ke
n
d
g
n
e
e
r
f
s
s,
of Jugglers, Airy powers,
and ofdevils.Chap. XXVI TALISMANIC MAGIC. 139
THE NUMBER TWELVE.
tynpnnninnK Inthe ori-
Father, Son, Holy Ghoft. ginalworld.
A
Hm nnv n>n» m*n nvn 'inn
Intheintel-
Principalities, Archangels, Angels, Innocents, Martyrs, Confeffors.
ligibleworld.
Zuriel, Barbiel, Adnachiel, Hanael, Gabriel, Barchiel.
Iflachar, Benjamin, Naphthalin, Gad, Zabulon, Ephraim.
Jonah, Obadiah, Zephaniah, Nahum, Habakkuk, Joel.
James the James the
Bartholomew, Philip, Thomas, Matthew,
elder, younger.
a In the celef
Libra, Scorpius, Sagittarius, Capricorn, Aquarius, Pifces.
tial world.
In the ele-
September, Oftober, November, December, January, February. mental
world.
Scorpion grafs, Mugwort, Pimpernel, Dock, Dragonwort, Ariflolochy.
Beryl, Amethyfi, Hyacinth, Chryfophrafus, Chryflal, Sapphire.
In theele-
Kidnies, Genitals, Hams, Knees, Legs, Feet. mentary
world.
fo
F
w
u
e
r
r
i
s
es,
of
t
e
h
v
e
il,
Sifters,ortriers, Te
e
m
n
p
f
t
na
e
r
r
e
s
r
,
s,
or Witches, ApoHates, Infidels. In
nal
th
w
e
or
i
l
n
d
fe
.
r-
S 2 CHAP,—
HO
TALISMANIC MAGIC. Part II.
CHAP. XXVII.
OF TIIE NOTES OF TIIE HEBREWS AND CHALDEANS, AND OTHER NOTES OF MAGICIANS.
THE
Hebrew characters have marks of numbers attributed to them far more
excellent than any other language, fmee the greateft myfteries lie in the
Hebrew letters, as is handled concerning thefe in that part of Cabala which we
call Notariacon. Now the principal Hebrew letters are in number twenty-
two, whereoffive have various other certain figuresin the end of a word, which,
therefore, they call the five ending letters, which, being added to them afore-
faid, make twenty-feven which being then divided into three degrees, fignify
; —
units, which are in the firfl degree—tens, which are in the fecond and
hundreds, which are in the third degree. Now every one, if they are marked
with a great character, fignifies fo many thoufands, as here
3000 2000 1000
3 K
3
The dalles of the Hebrew numbers are thefe which follow
987 543-21
6
d n i ) rr t l 3 k
go 80 70 60 50 40 30 20 10
X D y D 3 ft b 3 >
900 800 700 600 500 400 300 200 100
VT a
n w n
i *j p
Sometimes the final letters are not ufed, but we write thus :
1000 900 800 700 600 500
m
n nnp nn nttf np
And by thofe fimple figures, and by the joining them together, they de-
scribe all other compound numbers : as eleven, twelve, an hundred andten, an
hundredChap. XXVII. TALISMANIC MAGIC. 141
hundred and eleven, by adding1 to the number ten thofe which are units and
•,
in the like manner to the reft, after their manner yet we defcribe the fifteenth
;
number not*by ten and five, but by nine and fix, viz. di and that out of
;
honour to the Divine name rr, which fignifies fifteen, left that facred name
fhould be abufed to profane things. Likewife the Egyptians, Ethiopians,
Chaldeans, and Arabians, have their marks of numbers, which, ferve for the
making of magical characters but the Chaldeans mark their numbers with
;
the letters of their alphabet, after the manner of the Hebrews. I found, in a
very antient book of Magic,, fame very elegant characters, which I have
figur 1 ed i 2 n the following manner :
3 4 5 6 7 9
r
r r r r r r f p
Now
of thefe characters, turned towards the left hand, are made tens,
T•• in• i '
10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90
1
1
*1 ft
'I
And thofe marks being downwards, to the right hand, make hundreds to
Lm ;
the left, thoufands,; viz^
100 200 300 400 500 600 700 800 900
i l h b
j.
1000 2000 3000 4000 5000 6000 7000 8000 9000
J
J
J 4 J J
>1 il rl
And—
142 TALISMANIC MAGIC. Part II.
And by the compofition and mixture of thefe characters, other compound
numbers are moft elegantly made, as you may perceive by thefe few
:
1510 1486 2421
X
1
CHAP. XXVIII.
TIIE MAGIC TABLES OF THE PLANETS THEIR FORM AND VIRTUE WHAT DIVINE NAMES,
INTELLIGENCES, AND SPIRITS, ARE SET OVER THEM.
THERE are certain magic tables of numbers diftributed to the feven planets,
which they call the facred tables of the planets becaufe, being rightly form-
;
ed, they are endued with many great virtues of the heavens, infomuch that
they reprefent the divine order of the celeftial numbers, impreffed upon them
by the ideas of the divine mind, by means of the foul of the world, and the
fweet harmony of thofe celeftial rays fignifying, according to proportion,
;
fuperceleftial intelligences, which can no other way be exprefled than by the
marks of numbers, letters, and characters for material numbers and figures
;
can do nothing in the myfteries of hidden things, but reprefentatively by
formal numbers and figures, as they are governed and informed by intelli-
gences and divine enumerations, which unite the extremes of the matter and
fpirit to the will of the elevated foul, receiving (through great affeCtion, by
the celeftial power of the operator) a virtue and power from God, applied
through the foul of the univerfe and the obfervation of celeftial conftellations
;
toV
’»
s.' -jr~ '
J
,O
.
/Yale
/.
/
/,C /7a/'/e*J . fetzY /'* (s/t/tftrA> <J f.^/'//fr /r/zzr/s //z^ls-. jC?/s//y/v;rr it/a
/7~/tr . Ja/'/r /s< /nYu+j ( iJ/ie e .4 a/ /e Y/r A'/two
4 9 2 \ P a 3
3 s n
7
J r
8 / 6 n X
a^
A/Ae, AeaA ^YaYtzSny
,
\
AAA-e YaAA sr /ee/izAe3y
,
Y/i YAe/i-beets
>
4 '4 /J / “I TO H
9 7 6 /2 ID f 7 J">
J // /O 8 P ,V’ J n
/6 2 3 /3 V D r
j:
YAAYCLjz/
—
YAze-Y<zA/e ojY'/AccsZ.j YAy/z 6
c?
// 24- 7 26> J PD D
4 22 2S 8 ,6 n HD r n V 4
'7 J /3 2/ .9 T\ n V TO
/o /8 / /4 22 > n r X l] 3 m £ D 3
23 6 29 2 /3 A3 O' 3
Ay e/Y
Att*> Yti/eAAz^&/?yyz ts^> L
DcfifmYbv F Barrett Pub. by BGLck.mgtorL .Allen fyCo. Engra^tYbyJK>Chap. XXVIII. TALiSMANlC MAGIC. ' 143
to a matter fit for a form, the mediums being difpofed by the fkill and in-
duftry of the magician.
But now we will haften to explain each particular table.* The firft table
is affigned to the planet Saturn, and confifts of a fquare of three, containing
the particular numbers of nine — , and in every line three every way, and through
each diameter making fifteen the whole fum of numbers forty-fiveq over this
are fet fuch divine names as fill up the numbers with an intelligence, to what is.
good, and a fpirit to bad ; and out of the fame numbers are drawn the feal
and character of Saturn, and of the fpirits thereof, fuch as is beneath afcribed
to the table.
Now this table being with a fortunate Saturn, engraven on a plate of lead,
helps child-birth and to make any man fafe or powerful and to caufe fuc-
; ;
cefs of petitions with princes and powers ; but if it be done, Saturn being un-
fortunate, it hinders buildings, planting, and the like, and calls a man from
honours and dignities, caufes difcord, quarrelling, and difperfes an army.
The fecond is the table of Jupiter, which confifts of a fquare drawn into
itfelf it contains fixteen particular numbers, and in every line and diameter
;
four, making thirty-four the fum ofall is one hundred and thirty-fix. There
;
are over it divine names, with an intelligence to that which is good, and a
fpirit to bad and out of it is drawn the character of Jupiter and the fpirits
;
thereof; if this is engraven on a plate of filver, with Jupiter being powerful
and ruling in the heavens, it conduces to gain riches and favour, love, peace,
and concord, and to appeafe enemies, and to confirm honours, dignities, and
counfels and diftolves enchantments if engraven on a coral.
;
The third table belongs to Mars, which is made of a fquare of five, con-
taining twenty-five numbers, and of thefe, in every fide and diameter, five,
which makes fixty-five, and the fum of all is three hundred and twenty-five
;
and there are over it divine names with an intelligence to good, and a fpirit to
evil, and out of it is drawn the characters of Mars and of his fpirits. Thefe,
with Mars fortunate, being engraven on an iron plate, or fword, makes
* For thefigure ofthe Tables, Seals, Characters, &c. ofthe feven Planets, fee the following Plates.
a man144 TTAALLIISSMMAANNIICC MMAAGGIICC.. Part II.
a man potent in war and judgment, and petitions, and terrible to his enemies,
and victorious over them ; and if engraven upon the Hone correola, it flops
blood, and the menftrues but if it be engraven, with Mars being unfortunate,
; —
on a plate of red brafs, it prevents and hinders — buildings it calls down the
powerful from dignities, honours, and riches caufes difcord and hatred,
—
amongfl men and bealfs drives away bees, pigeons, and fifh—-and hinders
—
mills from w — orking, /. e. binds them ; it likewife — renders hunters and fighters
unfortunate caufes barrennefs in men and women- and flrikes a terror into
our enemies, and compels them to fubmit.
The fourth table is of the Si///, and is made of a fquare of fix, and contains
thirty-fix particular numbers, whereof fix in every fide and diameter produce
one hundred and eleven, and the fum of all is fix hundred and fixty-fix there
;
are over it divine names, with an intelligence to what is good, and a fpirit to
what is evil, and out of it is drawn the chara6Ier of the Sun and of his fpirits.
This being engraven on a plate of pure gold, Sol being fortunate, renders him
that wears it renowned, amiable, acceptable, potent in all his works, and equals
him to a king, elevating his fortunes, and enabling him to do whatever he
will. But with an unfortunate Sun, it makes one a tyrant, proud, ambitious,
infatiable, and finally to come to an ill ending.
The fifth table is of Venus confifting of a fquare of feven, drawn into
;
itfelf, viz. of forty-nine numbers, whereof feven on each fide and diameter
make one hundred and feventy-five, and the fum of all is one thoufand two
hundred and twenty-five there are, likewife, over it divine names, with an
;
intelligence to good, and a fpirit to evil and there is drawn out of it the cha-
;
racter of Venus, and her fpirits. This being engraven on a plate of filver,
Venus being fortunate, promotes concord, ends ftrife, procures the love of
women, helps conception, is good againft barrennefs, gives ability for gene-
ration, ditfolves enchantments, caufes peace between man and woman, and
makes all kinds of animals fruitful, and likewife cattle and being put into a
;
dove or pigeon houfe, caufes an increafe it likewife drives away melancholy
;
diftempers, and caufes joyfulnefs and this being carried about travellers,
makes6
\
^
tfoAiSj T/LaAi
of
5*
6 32 3 39 35 / 1 nS l pS *
7 71 27 29 V 30 T TD np n s
19 13 76 73 23 2A tr -r V rr JP *0
1$ 20 22 27 73 rv ti ns X3 T' y
25 29 70 dA? 26 72 nn B3 £3 73 y
3b 5 33 2 37 n \*> *7 3 xS
f
A^Aes<AAaAAe/ erf oAzaoa r&? TP<77n//z~<z3 un^
37' 76 A1 10 35 A 3D| Tmtf! V * TlS
23 9-3 77 A2 11 23 ,n nx P a« x’ £33
6 29 39 21 36 12 _V_ 1 na n ’ iS T3;V
V xS
/j 31 7 25 93 19 37 -p - p 4 i - ,13 J0 £T
39 1A 32 7 26 A5 20 -V T3 p
2/ 33 9 33 2 27 95 XD nS n IS 3 ra n«
A 13 AO c 9 33 3 22 7^3 n* £3 ; ro
larretfDei Pub by Lac/cvnyrlon.*4~-iblen- R.GnfJith ScuI
/
cpf lAc 6^/cmeAi L/iei/c • jin6e/luperic&j ^ /ApuriAi
tJ6ocnv t/rvL&y ^pyyn.pux^*} •A/a/le, O'/iJbcS) uvo/Abe'/''!*DLAS Jvo6e*j
37 78 09 70 01 62 13 66 5 ny D W O y XD DO V na n
6 38 19 30 71 00 63 16 nn s xy ID 3'
P
A7 7 39 80 31 70 03 66 16 r zh oy 35 713 rr
16 IS 8 90 81 32 66 06 66 V TP m n » s*s 33 ID 33 33
67 17 49 9 61 73 33 65 06 n r » xo :v 37) no 7!3>
V
Tip 68 18 60 1 60 76 36 66 713 n* : s 33iy ID
D w
67 0.7 69 10 61 0. 63 76 66 r d BJ > 3 ja ny n"?
36 68 19 60 // 60 3 66 76 'll no tS D K* 33 -i3 )y
77 08 69 00 61 10 63 9 AS rv ronz 5 XD3' Ii n HD
rrelbDel. Pub byLacAincrboteSc.LLien.. H.Griffith Sculpy7
m
& 63 5,9 5 4 62 63 / n W a: '7 2D JD
3 4 4- 9 2 1 6 2 / 4 3 J - 6 2 / 3 4 2 4 5 2 4 2 9 - 4 5 2 3 3 J M 5 // 5 - / r$ o A 5 2 5 6 3 _ E3/2 7 3 * P 7 f 3 n * * 3 7 3 n V 3 o 3 H n 33 3 a n 3’ 7 B r * r ? f T r 1 r 3 O s
40 23 V 31 56 30 3/ 33 £) 72 13 J*7 71 *7 X7 37
r JO 30 3 JO 33 73
/ 9 5 4 5 7 4 54 6 - 2 /2 0 2 J / 3 4 5 3 / 4 5 2 0 1 / 6 6 L u n "0 3T 3' Ny 3 3 V
ID j KD D u
64 2 3 6/ 60 6 7 57 3 7 ?
J?ivb. byLacTcinqbo Jllen &Co.
\X
Chap. XXVIII. TALISMANfC MAGIC. 143
makes them fortunate. But if it be formed upon brais, Venus being' unfor-
tunate, it a6Is contrary to all that has been faid.
The fixth table is of Mercury, refulting from a fquare of eight drawn into
itfelf, containing fixty-four numbers, whereof eight on every fide and by both
diameters make two hundred and fixty, and the fum of all is two thoufand and
eighty and over it are fet divine names, with an intelligence to good, with a
;
fpirit to bad, and from it is drawn a character of Mercury, and the fpirits
thereof and if, with Mercury being fortunate, you engrave it upon filver,
;
tin, or yellow brafs, or write it upon virgin parchment, it renders the bearer
' thereof grateful, acceptable, and fortunate to do what hepleafes : it brings gain,
and prevents poverty helps the memory, underftanding, and divination, and
;
to the underftanding of occult things by dreams but with an unfortunate
;
Mercury does every thing contrary to this.
The feventh and laft table is of the Moon : it conftfts of a fquare of nine,
having eighty-one numbers in every fide, and diameter nine, producing^three
hundred and fixty-nine and the fum of all is three thoufand three hundred
;
and twenty-one. There are over it divine names, with an intelligence to what
is good, and a fpirit to evil and from it are drawn the charaHers of the Moon
;
and the fpirits thereof. This, the Moon being fortunate, engraven on filver,
makes the bearer amiable, pleafant, cheerful, and honoured, removing all
malice and ill-will it caufes fecurity in a journey, increafe of riches, and
;
health of body drives away enemies, and other evil things from what place
;
foever thou fhalt wifh them to be expelled. But if the Moon be unfortunate,
and it be engraved on a plate of lead, wherever it fhall be buried it makes that
place unfortunate, and the inhabitants thereabouts, as alfo fhips, rivers, foun-
tains, and mills *, and it makes every man unfortunate againft whom it fhall be
directly done, making him fly his place of abode (and even his country)
where it fhall be buried and it hinders phyficians and orators, and all men
;
whatfoever in their office, againft whom it fhall be made.
Now how the feals and characters of the planets are drawn from thefe tables,
the wife fearcher, and he who fhall underhand the verifying of thefe tables,
fhall eafily find out.
Book I. T Here. ;
146 TtAaLlIiSsMmAaNnIiCc MmAaGgIiCc.."" Part II.
Here follow the divine names correfpondingwith the numbers of the planets,
with the names of the intelligences and daemons, or fpirits, fubjeCt to thofe
names.
It is to be underftood that the intelligences are the prefiding good angels
that are fet over the planets but that the fpirits or daemons, with their names,
;
feals, or characters, are never infcribed upon any Talifman, except to execute
any evil effeCt, and that they are fubjeCt to the intelligences, or good fpirits
and again, when the fpirits and their characters are ufed, it will be more con-
ducive to the effeCt to add fome divine name appropriate to that effeCt which
we
defire.
Names anfwering to the Numbers of Saturn.
h
Numbers. DivineNames. DivineNamesinHebrew.
3 Ab ns
Hod
9 “in
15 Jah n*
15 Hod Tin
45 Jehovah extended snisisitnr*
45 Agiel, the Intelligence of Saturn ^S’JS
45 Zazel, the Spirit of Saturn bm
Names anfwering to the Numbers of Jupiter.
n
4 Aba sns
16 mn
16 >ns
34 El Ab ns^s
136 Joliphiel, the Intelligence ofJupiter ^S'Dn*
136 Hismael, the Spirit ofJupiter ^NDDil
Names anfwering to the Numbers of Mars
8
5 He, the letter ofthe holy name n
25 >n>
65 Adonai >ns
NumbersXX
Chap. VIII. TALTSMANIC MAGIC. 147
Numbe6rs. DivineNames. DivineNamesinHebrew:
325 Graphiel, the Intelligence ofMars
325 Barzabel, the Spirit of Mars
Names anfwering to the Numbers of the Sun
,
o
Vau, the letter ofthe holy name >
6 He extended, the letter ofthe holy name ' . sn
36 Eloh nV#
11 1 Nachiel, the Intelligence of the Sun
666 Sorath, the Spirit ofthe Sun rrnD
r * »
Names anfwering to the Numbers of Venus
.
s
7 Aha NHK
49 Hagiel, the Intelligence of Venus
175 Kedemel, the Spirit of Venus b.so*7p
1225 Bne Seraphim, the Intelligence of Venus 03
Names anfwering to the Numbers ofMercury
.
3
8 Asboga, eight extended ruam
64 Din
64 Doni
260 Tiriel, the Intelligence ofMercury ^N*“VD
2080 Taplhartharatb, the Spirit of Mercury JTimnsn
Names anfwering to the Numbers of the Moon
.
3
Hod
9
<7,1
81 Elim
369 Hasmodai, the Spirit ofthe Moon ’N^IDtiTT
332 1 Schedbarschemoth Schartatlian,the SpiritoftheSpiritsoftheMoon inJTWnyDntl>“Q'7ty
3321 Malcha betharsisim hed beruah schehalim, the Intelligence of the
Intelligences of the Moon
t
2 CHAF.
-US
TAIJSMANIC MAGIC. Part II.
CHAP. XXIX.
OF THE OBSERVATION OF THE CELESTIALS NECESSARY IN EVERY MAGICAL WORK.
EVERY
natural virtue works things far more wonderful when it is not only
Compounded of anatural proportion, but alfo is informed by a choiceobfervation
of the celeftials opportune to this (viz. when the celeftial power is moft ftrong to
that effe6t: which we defire, and alfo helped by many celeftials), by fubjetting
inferiors to the celeftials, as proper females, to be made fruitful by their males.
Alfo, in every work there are to be obferved the fituation, motion, and afpeCt of
the liars and planets, in figns and degrees, and how all thefe ftand in reference
to the length and latitude of the climate for by this are varied the qualities
;
of the angles, which the rays of the celellial bodies upon the figure of the thing
defcribe, according to which celeftial virtues are infufed. So when you are
working any thing which belongs to any planet, you muft place it in its dig-
nities, fortunate, and powerful, and ruling in the day hour, and in the figure
of the heavens. Neither muft you expeCt the fignification of the work to be
powerful, but you muft obferve the Moon opportunely direCted to this for
•>
you fhall do nothing- without the afiiftance of the Moon. And if you have
more patterns of your work, obferve them all,being moft powerful, and looking
upon one another with a friendly afpeCt and if you cannot have fuch afpeCts,
;
it will be convenient at leaf! that you take them angular. But you fhall take
the Moon either when the looks upon both, or is joined to one, and looks upon
the other, or when when fhe pafles from the conjunction or afpeCt of one,, to
the conjunction or afpeCt of the other for that, I conceive, muft in no wife
;
be omitted. Alfo, you fhall in every work obferve Mercury, for he is a
meffenger between the higher gods and the infernal gods when he goes to the
:
good, he increafes their goodnefs—when to the bad, he hath influence on their
wickcdnefs. We call it an unfortunate fign or planet, when it is, by the
afpeCt of Saturn or Mars efpecially, oppofite or quadrant, for thefe are the
afpeCts of enmity but a conjunction, a trine, and a fextile afpeCt, areoffriend-
;
ship between thefe there is a greater conjunction ; but yet if you do already
behold^
Chap. XXX. TALISMANIC MAGIC. !
behold it through a trine, and the planet be received, it is accounted as al-
ready conjoined. Now all planets are afraid of the conjundlion of the Sun,
rejoicing in the trine, and Textile afpedt thereof.
CHAP. XXX.
WHEN THE .PLANETS ARE OF MOST POWERFUL INFLUENCE..
NOW
we fhall have the planets powerful when they are ruling in a houfe, or
in exaltation, or triplicity, or term, or face, without combuftion of what is
direct in the figure ofthe heavens, viz. when they are in angles, efpecially of
the rifing, or tenth, or in houfes prefently fucceeding, or in their delights
;
but we mull take heed that they are not in the bounds or under the dominion
You
of Saturn or Mars, left they be in dark degrees, in pits, or vacuities.
fhall obferve that the angles of the afcendant, and tenth, and feventh, be for-
tunate as alfo the lord ofthe afcendant, and place of the Sun andMoon, and
;
place of the part of fortune, and the lord thereof, the lord of the foregoing
conjunction and prevention. But that they of the malignant planet fall un-
fortunate unlefs happily they be fignificators of thy work,, or can be of any
;
advantage to thee, or in thy revolution or birth they had the predominance,
for then they are not at all to be deprefled. Now we fhall have the Moon
powerful iffhe be in her houfe, or exaltation, or triplicity, or face, or in de-
gree convenient for the defired work and ifit hath a manfton ofthefe twenty-
;
eight, fuitable to itfelfand the work, let her not in the way be burnt up,* nor
—
flow in courfe let her not be in the eclipfe, or burnt by the Sun, unlefs fhe be
—
in unity with the Sun let her not defcend in the fouthern latitude, when fhe
—
goeth out of the burning neither let her be oppofite to the Sun, nor deprived
of light— let her not be hindered by Mars or Saturn,
* Via Combufta.
CHAP.;
150 TAL1SMANIC MAGIC. Part It
CFIAP. XXXI.
OBSERVATIONS ON THE FIXED STARS, AND THEIR NAMES AND NATURES.
THERE
is the like confideration to be had in all thing's concerning the fixed
ftars._ Know this, that all the fixed ftars are of the fignification and nature of
the feven planets but fome are of the nature of one planet, and fome of two.
;
Hence, as often as any planet is joined with any of the fixed ftars of its own
nature, the fignification of that ftar is made more powerful, and the nature of
the planet augmented but if it be a ftar of two natures, the nature of that
;
which fliall be the ftronger with it, fliall overcome in fignification : as for ex-
ample, if it be of the nature of Mars and Venus, if Mars fliall be the ftronger
with it, the nature of Mars fhall overcome but if Venus, the nature of Venus
;
fliall overcome. Now the natures offixed ftars are difcovered by their colours,
Now
as they agree with certain planets, and are afcribed to them. the colours
—
of the planets are thefe : of Saturn, blue, and leaden, and Aiming with this ;
of Jupiter, citrine, near to a palenefs, and clear with this of Mars, red and
;
fiery of the Sun, yellow, and when it rifes red, afterwards glittering of
; — ;
Venus, white and fliining white in the morning, and reddifh in the evening
;
of Mercury, glittering of the Moon, fair. Know, alfo, that of the fixed
;
ftars, by how much the greater, and brighter, and apparent they are, fo much
the greater and ftronger is the fignification: fuch are thofe ftars called by
the aftrologers of the firft and fe.cond magnitude. I will tell thee fome ofthefe
which are more potent to this faculty, viz. the navel of Andromeda, in the
—
twenty-fecond degree of Aries, ofthe nature of Venus and Mercury fome call
it jovial and faturnine the head of Algol, in the eighteenth degree of Taurus,
;
of the nature of Saturn and Jupiter the Pleiades are alfo in the twenty-fecond
;
degree, a lunary ftar by nature, and complexion martial alfo Aldeboram, in
;
the th — ird degree of Gemini, is of the nature of Mars, and complexion of
Venus but Hermes places this in the twenty-fifth degree of Aries the Goat
;
ftar, in the thirteenth degree of Gemini, is of the nature of Jupiter and
Saturn the Great Dog ftar is in the feventh degree of Cancer and Venereal
;
theChap. XXXI. TALISMANIC MAGIC. 151
the Little Dog 1 ftar is in the feventeenth degree of the fame, and is of the na-
ture of Mercury, and complexion of Mars the King* ftar, which is called the
;
Heart of the Lion, is in the twenty-firft degree of Leo, and of the nature of
Jupiter and Mars the tail of the Great Bear is in the nineteenth degree of
•,
Virgo, and is venereal and lunary. The ftar which is called the Right Wing
of the Crow, is in the feventh degree of Libra and in the thirteenth degree
;
of the fame, is the left wing of the fame, and both of the nature of Saturn and
Mars. The ftar called Spica, is in the ftxteenth degree ofthe fame, and is
venereal and mercurial. In the feventeenth degree of the fame is Alcameth,
of the nature of Mars and Jupiter but of this, when the Sun’s afpedf is full
— ;
towards it of that, when on the contrary. Elepheia, in the fourth degree of
Scorpio, of the nature of Venus and Mars. The Heart of the Scorpion is in
the third degree of Sagittarius, of the nature of Mars and Jupiter. The fall-
ing Vulture is in the feventh degree of Capricorn, temperate, mercurial, and
venereal. The tail of Capricorn is in the ftxteenth degree of Aquarius, of the
nature ofSaturn and Mercury. The ftar called the Shoulder o — f the Horfe, is
in the third degree of Pifces, of the nature of Jupiter and Mars. And it fhall
be a general rule for you to expedf the proper gifts of the ftars, whiift they
—
rule to be prevented of them, they being unfortunate, as is above fiiewed
;
for celeftial bodies, inafmuch as they are affedled fortunately or unfortunately,
fo much do they affedt us, our works, and thofe things which we ufe, for-
tunately or unhappily. And although many effedts proceed from the fixed
ftars, yet they are attributed to the planets as becaufe being more near to us,
;
and more diftindt and known, fo becaufe they execute whatever the fuperior
ftars communicate to them.
CHAP.152 ^ALISMANIC MAGIC. Part II.
CHAP. XXXII.
OF THE SUN AND MOON, AND THEIR MAGICAL CONSIDERATIONS.
THE Sun and Moon have obtained the adminiftration of ruling' the hea-
vens, and all bodies under the heavens. The Sun is the lord of all elementary
virtues and the Moon, by virtueof the Sun, ismiftrefs of generation, increase
;
or decreafe. Albumfar fay’s, that by the Sun and Moon, life is infufed into
all things which Orpheus calls the enlivening eyes of Heaven. The Sun
*,
giveth light to all things of itfelf, and gives it plentifully, not only to all things
in heaven and air, but earth and deep. Whatever good we have, Jamblicus
fays, we have it from the Sun alone or from it through other things. Hera-
;
clitus calls the Sun, the fountain of celeftial light and many of the Platonifts
;
placed the foul of the world chiefly in the Sun, as that which, filling the whole
globe of the Sun, doth fend forth its rays on all fides, as it were a fpirit through
all things, diftributing life, fenfe, and motion to the univerfe. Hence the
antient naturalifts called the Sun the very heart ofHeaven and the Chaldeans
;
put it as the middle of the Planets. The Egyptians alfo placed it in the middle
of the world, viz. between the two fives of the world
;
1. e. above the Sun they
place five planets, and under him, the Moon and four elements. For it is,
among!! the other liars, the image and ftatue of the great Prince of both
worlds, viz. terreftrial and celeftial ; the true light, a — nd the moft exa61 image
of God himfelf whofe eflence refembles the Father light, the Son— heat,
:
the Holy Ghoft. So that the Platonifts have nothing to hold forth the divine
eflence more manifeftly by than this. The Sun difpofes even the very fpirit
and mind of man, which Homer fays, and is approved by Ariftotle, that
there are in the mind fuch like motions as the Sun, the prince and moderator
of the planets, brings to us every day but the Moon, the neareft to the earth,
;
the receptacle of all the heavenly influences, by the fwiftnefs of her courfe, is
joined to the Sun, and the other planets and liars, every month and receiv-
;
ing the beams and influences of all the other planets and liars, as a conception,
bringing them forth to the inferior world, as being next to itfelf for all the
;
ftarsChap. XXXIII. TALISMANIC MAGIC. 153
liars haveInfluence on it, being the laft receiver, which afterwards communi-
cates the influence of all the fuperiors to thefe inferiors, and pours them forth
on the earth and it more manifeftly difpofes thefe inferiors than others.
;
Therefore her motion is to be obferved before the others, as the parent of all
conceptions, which it diverfely iffues forth in thefe inferiors, according to the
diverfe complexion, motion, fltuation, and different afpefts to the planets and
other ftars and though it receives powers from all the fears, yet efpecially
*,
from the Sun, as oft as it is in conjunction with Ihe fame, it is replenifhed
with vivifying virtue and, according to the afpefil thereof, it borrows its
;
complexion. From it the heavenly bodies begin that feries of things which
Plato calls the golden chain by which every thing and caufe, being linked
;
one to another, do depend on the fuperior, even until it may be brought unto
the fupreme caufe of all, from which all things depend hence it is, that,
;
without the Moon intermediating, we cannot at any time attra6I the power of
the fuperiors therefore, to obtain the virtue of any flar, take the hone and
;
herb of that planet, when the Moon fortunately comes under, or has a good
afpeft on, that flar.
CHAP XXXIII.
OF THE TWENTY-EIGHT MANSIONS OF THE MOON, AND THEIR VIRTUES.
AND feeing the Moon meafures the whole fpace of the Zodiac in the time
of twenty-eight days, hence it is that the wife men of the Indians and mofl
,
of the antient aftrologers have granted twenty-eight manflons to the Moon,
which, being fixed in the eighth fphere, do enjoy (as Aljiharus fays) divers
names and properties, from the various figns and ftars which are contained in
them through which, while the Moon wanders, it obtains many other powers
;
and virtues but every one of thefe manflons, according to the opinion of
5
Abraham contained twelve degrees, and fifty-one minutes, and almoft twenty-
,
Book U
I. fix; ; ;:
154 TALISMANTC MAGIC. Part II.
fix feconds, whole names, and alfo their beginnings in the Zodiac, of the
—
eighth fphere, are thefe : The firtt is called Alnath ; that is, the horns of
Aries : his beginning is from the head of Aries, of the eighth fphere ; it
eaufes difcords and journies. The fecond is called AUothaim , or Albochan ;
that is, the belly of Aries and his beginning is from the twelfth degree of the-
;
fame fign, fifty-one minutes, twenty-two feconds complete : it conduces to the
finding of treafures, and to the retaining captives. The third is called
Achciomazon, or Athoray that is, (flowering, or Pleiades : his beginning is from
the twenty-fifth degree of Aries complete, forty-two minutes, and fifty-one
feconds it is profitable to bailors, huntfmen, and alchymifts. The fourth
;
manfion is calledAldebaram, or Aldelcnnen ; that is, the eye or head of Taurus
his beginning is from the eighth degree of Taurus, thirty-four minutes and,
feventeen feconds of the fame, Taurus being excluded : it eaufes the deftruc-
tion and hindrances of buildings, fountains, wells, gold mines, the flight of
creepingthings, and begets difeord. The fifth is called Alehatay, or Albachay
the beginning of it is after the twenty-firfl degree of Taurus, twenty-five mi-
nutes, forty feconds : it helps to the return from a journey, to the inflrudtion
of fcholars it confirms edifices, it gives health and good-will. The fixth is
;
called Atlianna , or Alchaya; that is, the little liar of great light : his begin-
ning is after the fourth degree of Gemini, feventeen minutes, and nine fe-
conds ; it conduces to hunting and befieging towns, and revenge of princes :
it defiroys harvefls and fruits, and hinders the operation of the phyfician. The
feventh is called Aldimiach , or Alarzach that is, the arm of Gemini, and be-
gins from the feventeenth degree of Gemini, eight minutes, and thirty-four
feconds, and lafts even to the end of the fign it confirms gain and friendfhip
•, ;
it is profitable to lovers, and deftroys magiltracies : and fo is one quarter of
the heaven completed in thefe feven manfions, and in the like order and num-
ber of degrees, minutes, and feconds the remaining manfions, in every
;
quarter, have their feveral beginnings namely, fo that in the firfl fign of
;
this quarter three manfions take their beginnings in the other two figns, two
;
manfions in each therefore the feven following manfions begin with Cancer,
;
whofe names are Alnaza Anatrachya ; that is, mifty or cloudy, viz. the eighth
manfionChap. XXXIII. ' TALISMANIC MAGIC. 155
manfion ; it caufes love, friendfliip, and fociety of fellow travellers : it drives
away mice, and affli6is captives, confirming- their imprifonment. After this
is the ninth, called Archaam , or Arcaph', that is, the eye of the Lion : it hin-
ders harveft and travellers, and puts difcord between men. The tenth is call-
ed Algelioche , or Albgebh; that is, the neck nr forehead ofLeo : it ftrengthens
buildings, promotes love, benevolence, and help againft enemies. The ele-
venth is called Azobra,or Ardaf; that is, the hair ofthe lion’s head : it is good
for voyages, and gain by merchandife, and for redemption of captives. The
twelfth is called Aharpha , or Azarpha; that is, the tail of Leo : it gives pro-
sperity to harveft and plantations, but hinders feamen, and is good for the
bettering of fervants, captives, and companions. The thirteenth is named
Alhaife; thatis. Dog ftars, or the wings of Virgo ; it is prevalent forbenevo-
lence, gain, voyages, harvefts, and freedom of captives. The fourteenth is
called Achureth , orArimet ; by others, Azimeth , or Athumech , or Alcheymech
that is, the fpike of Virgo, or flying fpike : it caufes the love ofmarried folks.;
•it cures the ftek, is profitable to failors, but hinders journies by land- ; and in
thefe the fecond quarter of the heaven is completed. The other feven follow :
the firft of which begins in the head of Libra, viz,, the fifteenth manfion, and
its name is Agrapha , or Algrapha; that is, covered, or covered flying : it is
profitable for extracting treafures, for digging of pits it aflifts divorce, dif-
;
cord, and deftruCtion of houfes and enemies, and hinders travellers. The
ftxteenth is called Azubene^ orAhubene; that is, the horns of Scorpio : it hin-
ders journies and wedlock, harveft and merchandife it prevails for redemption
;
of captives. The feventeenth is called Alehit; that is, the crown of Scorpio :
it betters a bad fortune, makes love durable, ftrengthens buildings, and helps
feamen. The eighteenth is called Alehas., or Altob; that is, the heart of
Scorpio : it caufes difcord, fedition, confpiracy againft princes and mighty
ones, and revenge from enemies but it frees captives,- and helps edifices.
;
The nineteenth is called Allat-ha or A diala; by others, Hyeula or Ax ala;
, ,
that is, the tail of Scorpio * it helps in beiieging of cities, and taking of towns,
and in the driving of men from tlieir places, and for the deltruciion offeamen,
and perdition ofcaptives. Thb twentieth is called Abnahayei;-that is, a beam :
US
* - it;;; ; ;
156 TALISMAN IC MAGIC. Part II.
it helps for the taming1 of wild beafts, for ftrengthening of prifons-, it deftroys
the wealth of focieties it compels a man to come to a certain place. The
;
twenty-firft is called Abeda , or Albeldach , which is a defer! : it is good for
harveft, gain, buildings, and travellers, and caufes divorce and in this is
•,
the third quarter ofheaven completed. There remains the feven laft manfions,
completing1 the laft quarter of Heaven : the firft of which', being in order to
the twenty-feeond, beginning from the head of Capricorn, called Sadahacha y
or Zodeboluch, or Zandeldena that is, a paftor : it promotes the flight of fer-
vants and captives, that they may efcape, and helps the curing of difeafes.
The twenty-third is- called Zabadola , or Zobrach that is, fvvallowing : it is for
divorce, liberty of captives, and health to the ftck. The twenty-fourth is
called Sadabalh, or Clmdezoad that is, the ftar of fortune : it is prevalent for
the benevolence of married people, for the vidlory of foldiers it hurts the ex<-
;
eeution of government, and prevents its being exercifed, The twenty-fifth is
called Sadalabra , or Sadalachia that is, a butter.-fly, or a fpreading forth : it
favours befieging1 and revenge it deftroys enemies, and caufes divorce con-
; ;
firms prifons and buildings, haftens. meffengers it conduces to fpells againft
;
copulation, and fo binds every member of man that it cannot perform its
duty. The twcnty-fixth is called Al[iharg , or Phragal Mocaden that is, the
firft drawing : it caufes union, health of captives, deftroys buildings and pri-
fons. The tvventy-feventh is called Alchara Alyhalgalmoad> or the fecond
drawing : it increafes harveft, revenues, gain, and heals infirmities ; but hin-
ders buildings, prolongs prifons, caufes danger to feamen, and helps to infer
mifchiefs on whom you fhall pleafe. The twenty-eighth and laft is called
Albotham , or Alchalcy that is, Fifces ; it increafes harveft and merchandife ; it
fecures travellers through dangerous places it makes for the joy of married
;
people but it ftrengthens prifons, and caufes lofs of treafures. And in thefe
;
twenty-eight,manfions lie hid many fecrets of the wifdom of the antients, by
which they wrought wonders on all things which are under the circle of the
Moon and they attributed to every manlion his refemblances, images, and
;
feals, and his prefident intelligences, and vrorked by the virtue of them after
different manners*
CHAP,Chap. XXXIV. TALISMANIC MAGIC. 157
CHAP. XXXIV.
HOW SOME ARTIFICIAL THINGS (AS IMAGES, SEALS, AND SUCH LIKE) MAY OBTAIN SOME
VIRTUE FROM THE CELESTIAL BODIES.
SO great is the extent, power, and efficacy of the celeffial bodies, that not
only natural thing's, but alfo artificial, when they are rightly expofed to thofe
above, do prefently fuffer by that moft potent agent, and obtain a wonderful
life. The magicians affirm,, that not only by the mixture and application of
natural things, but alfo in images, feals, rings, glaffes, and fome other in-
ffruments, being opportunely framed under a certain conftellation, fome ce-
leftial illuftration may be taken, and fome wonderful thing may be received
;
for the beams of the celeffial bodies being animated, living, fenfual, and
bringing along with them admirable gifts, and a moft violent power, do,
even in a moment, and at the firff touch, imprint wonderful powers in the
images, though their matter be lefs capable. Yet they beftowmore powerful
virtues on the images if they be framed not of any, but of a certain matter,
namely, whofe natural, and alfo fpecifical virtue is agreeable with the work,
and the figure of the image is like to the celeffial for fuch an image, both in
;
regard to the matter naturally congruous to the operation and celeffial in-
fluence, and alfo for its figure being like to the heavenly one, is belt prepared
to receive the operations and powers of the celeffial bodies and figures, and
inftantly receives the heavenly gift into itfelf though it conffantly worketh
;
on another thing, and other things yield obedience to it..
CHAP.; ;;
158 TALISMANIC MAGIC. Part II.
CHAP. XXXV.
OF THE IMAGES OF THE ZODIAC WHAT VIRTUES, THEY BEING ENGRAVEN, RECEIVE
FROM THE STARS.
BUT
the celeftial images, according to whofe likenefs images of this kind
are framed, are many in the heavens fome vifible and confpicuous, others
;
only imaginary, conceived and fet down by the Egyptians Indians and
, ,
Chaldeans and their parts are fo ordered, that even the figures of fome of
them are diftinguifhed from others for this reafon they place in the circle
;
of the Zodiac twelve general images, according to the number of the figns
ofthefe, they conftituting Aries, Leo, and Sagittarius, for the fiery and oriental
triplicity, report that it is profitable againft fevers, palfy, dropfy, gout, and
all cold and phlegmatic infirmities and that it makes him who carries it to
;
be acceptable, eloquent, ingenious, and honourable becaufe they are the
;
houfes of Mars, Sol, and Jupiter. They made, alfo, the image of a lion
againft melancholy phantafi.es, dropfy, plague, and fevers, and to expel
difeafes, at the hour of the Sun, the firft degree of the fign Leo afeending,
which is the face and decanate of Jupiter ; but againft the ftone, and difeafes
of the reins, and againft hurts of beafts, they made the fame image when Sol,
in the heart of the lion, obtained the midft of heaven. And again, becaufe
Gemini, Libra, and Aquarius, do conftitute the aerial and occidental triplicity,
and are the houfes of Mercury, Venus, and Saturn, they are faid to put to
flight difeafes, to conduce to friendfhip and concord, to prevail againft melan-
choly, and to caufe health and they report that Aquarius efpecially frees
•,
from the quartan. Alfo, that Cancer, Scorpio, and Pifces, becaufe they con-
ftitute the watery and northern triplicity, do prevail againft hot and dry fevers,
alfo againft the heftic, and all choleric paffions but Scorpio, becaufe among
;
the members it refpefts the privy parts, doth provoke to luft ; but thefe did
frame it for this purpofe, his third face afeending, which belongs to Venus ;
and they made the fame, againft ferpents and fcorpions, poifons and evil fpi-
rits, his fecond face afeending, which is the face of the Sun, and decanate ol
JupiterCsomantic C%aracter*
A
Planets-
# *
o
8 # #
o Populus
o ffa # %
o
Ami/sio
Puella
#
®
*
5ForHbuna PSfa/oi
EA
Fortuezo,I lire or
*
*
^
**
*
4
Jgwisitio
*
# *
Si
#
#
Lcetitia
*
$
* I¥Tm
%
e
Career* Trislilia
^
x|^ Q
#
CaRnPPraegorus-
A A AAA
i #
#
CaudaFragones
#
t #
JFnpTwetltreP.Grp/fich
Cub. by Zacfanplcn Allen &Co.»
Chap. XXXVI, TALISMANIC MAGIC. " 159
Jupiter and they report that it maketh him who carries it wife, of a good
;
colour and they fay that the image of Cancer is moft efficacious againft fer-
,
pents and poifon, when Sol and Luna are in conjunction in it, and afcend in
the firft and third face ; for this is the face of Venus, and the decanate of
Luna but the fecond face of Luna the decanate ofJupiter. They report, alfo,
;
that ferpents are tormented when the Sun is in Cancer alfo, that Taurus,
;
Virgo, and Capricorn, beeaufe they confiitute the earthly and fouthern tripli-
city, do cure hot infirmities, and prevail againft the fynocal fever it makes
;
thofe who carry it grateful, acceptable, eloquent, devout, and religious beeaufe
;
V
they arethehoufesof enus, Mars, andSaturn. Capricorn alfois reportedtokeep
men in fafety, and alfo places in fecurity, beeaufe it is the exaltation of Mars.
CHAP. XXXVL
OF THE IMAGES OF SATURN
BUT now what images they did attribute to the planets. Although of
thefe tilings very large volumes have been written by the antient wife men, fo
that there is no need to declare them here, notwithftanding I will recite a
few of them for they made, from the operations of Saturn, Saturn afeending
;
in a flone, which is called the load-ftone, the image of a man, having the
countenance ofa hart, and camel’s feet, andfitting upon a chair or elfe a dragon,
holding in his right hand a feythe, in his left a dart, which image they hoped,
would be profitable for prolongation of life for Album afar, in his book
;
Sadary proves that Saturn conduces to the prolongation of life where, alfo,
;
he fays that certain regions of India being fubjedt to Saturn, there men. are
of a very long life, and die not unlefs by extreme old age. They made,
alfo, an image of Saturn, for length of days, in a fapphire, at the hour of
£aturn, Saturn afeending or fortunately conhituted whofe figure was an old
;
man fitting upon a high chair, having his hands lifted up above his head,
and160 TALISMANIC MAGIC. Part II.
and in them holding- a fifh or fickle, and under his feet a bunch of grapes,
his head covered with a black or dulky coloured cloth, and all his garments
black or dark. They alfo make this fame image againft the.hone, and difeafes
of the kidnies, viz. in the hour of Saturn, Saturn afeending with the third
face of Aquarius. They made alfo, from the operations of Saturn, an image
for the increafing of power, Saturn afeending in Capricorn the form ofwhich
;
was an old mail leaning on a Itaff, having in his hand a crooked fickle, and
clothed in black. They alfo made an image of melted copper, Saturn afeend-
ing in his rifing, viz. in the firft degree of Aries, or the firlt degree of Capri-
corn which image they affirm to fpeak with a man’s voice. They made alfo,
;
from the operations of Saturn, and alfo Mercury, an image ofcafl metal, like
a beautiful man, which, they faid, would foretel things to come and made
;
it on the day of Mercury, on the third hour of Saturn, the fign of Gemini
afeending, being the houfe of Mercury, fignifying prophets Saturn and
;
Mercury being in conjunction in Aquarius, in the ninth houfe of heaven, which
is alfo called God. Moreover, let Saturn have a trine afpeCt on the afeendant,
and the Moon in like manner, and the Sun have an afpeCt on the place of
conjunction Venus, obtaining fome angle, may be powerful and occidental
; ;
let Mars be combuft by the Sun, but let it not have an afpeCt on Saturn and
Mercury for they faid that the fplendour of the powers of thefe liars was
;
diffufed upon this image, and it did fpeak with men, and declare thofe things
which are profitable for them.
CHAP. XXXVII.
OF THE IMAGES OF JUPITER.
FROM
the operations of Jupiter they made, for prolongation of life, an
image in the hour of Jupiter, Jupiter being in his exaltation fortunately
afeending, in a clear and white Hone whofe figure was a man crowned,
;
clothed1
Chap. XXXVIII. TALISMANIC MAGIC. 16
clothed with garments of a faffron colour, riding upon an eagle or dragon,
having in his right hand a dart, about, as it were, to ftrike it into the head of
the fame eagle 6r dragon. They made, alfo, another image of Jupiter, at
the fame convenient feafon, in a white and clear ftone, efpecially in cryftal
;
and it was a naked man crowned, having both his hands joined together and
lifted up, as it were, deprecating fomething fitting in a four-footed chair,
which is carried by four winged boys and they affirm that this image in-
;
creafes felicity, riches, honours, and confers benevolence and profperity, and
frees from enemies. They made, alfo, another image of Jupiter, for a reli-
gious and glorious life, and advancement offortune whofe figure was a man,
;
having the head of a lion or a ram, and eagle’s feet, and clothed in faffron
coloured clothes.
CHAP. XXXVIII.
OF THE IMAGES OF MARS.
FROM the operations of Mars, they made an image in the hour of Mars
(Mars afcending in the fecond face of Aries), in a martial ftone, efpecially in
a diamond the form of which was a man armed, riding upon a lion, having
;
in his right hand a naked fword ere6t, carrying in his left hand the head of
a man. They report that an imageof this kind renders a man powerful in good
and evil, fo that he fhall be feared by all and whoever carries it, they give
;
him the power of enchantment, fo that he fhall terrify men by his looks when
he is angry, and ftupify them. They made another image of Mars, for ob-
taining boldnefs, courage, and good fortune, in wars and contentions the
;
form of which was a foldier, armed and crowned, girt with a fword, carrying
in his right hand a long lance and they made this at the hour of Mars, the
;
firft face of Scorpio afcending with it.
Book X CHAP.
I.162 TALISMANIC MAGIC. Part II.
CHAP. XXXIX.
OF THE IMAGES OF THE SUN,
FROM the operations of the Sun they made an image at the hour of the
Sun, the firfl face of Leo afcending with the Sun the form of which was a
;
king crowned, fitting in a chair, having a raven in his bofom, and under his
feet aglobe : he is clothed in faffron coloured clothes. They fay that this image
renders men invincible and honourable, and helps to bring their bufinefs to a
good end, and to drive away vain dreams.; alfo to be prevalent againfi fevers,
and the plague and they made it in a balanite Rone, or a ruby, at the hour
;
of the Sun, when he, in his exaltation, fortunately afcends. They made an-
other image of the Sun in a diamond, at the hour of the Sun afcending in
his exaltation the figure of which was a woman crowned, with the gefture of
;
one, dancing and laughing, Handing in a chariot drawn by four horfes,
having in her right hand a looking-glafs or buckler, in the left a Raff, leaning
on her breaR, carrying a flame of fire on herhead. They fay that this image
renders a man fortunate, and rich, and beloved of all and they made this
;
image on a cornelian Rone, at the hour of the Sun afcending in the firR face
of Leo, againfl lunatic paflions, which proceed from the combuRion of the
Moon.
I ' J _U . i Ui •U'VO i y'ifv
CHAP. XL.
OF THE IMAGES OF VENUS.
FROM
the operations of Venus they made an image, which was available
for favour and benevolence, at the very hour it afcended into Pifces the form
;
of which was the image of a woman, having the head of a bird, the feet of an
eagle, and holding a dart in her hand. They made another image of Venus,
to;
/
Chap. XLI. TALISMANIC MAGIC. 163
to obtain the love of women, in the lapis lazuli, at the hour of Venus, Venus
afcending in Taurus the figure of which was a naked maid, with her hair
fpread abroad, having a looking-glafs in her hand, and a chain tied about her
neck—-and near her a handfome young man, holding her with his left hand
by the chain, but with his right hand doing up her hair, and both looking
—
lovingly on one another and about them is a little winged boy, holding a
fword or dart. They made another image of Venus, the firft face of Taurus
,
Libra or Pifces afcending with Venus thefigure of which was a little maid,
, , ;
with her hair fpread abroad, clothed in long and white garments, holding a
laurel apple, or flowers, in her right hand, in her left a comb : it is faid to
make men pleafant, jocund, ftrong, cheerful, and to give beauty.
CHAP. XLI.
OF THE IMAGES OF MERCURY.
FROM the operations of Mercury they made an image of i Mercury,
Mercury afcending in Gemini the form of which was a handfome young
;
man, bearded, having in his left hand a rod, round which a ferpent was en-
—
twined in theright he carried a dart havinghis feet winged. They fay that
;
this image confers knowledge, eloquence, diligence in merchandife, and gain
;
moreover, to obtain peace and concord, and cure fevers. They made another
image of Mercury, afcending in Virgo, for good will, wit, and memory
;
the form of which was a man fitting upon a chair, or riding on a peacock,
having eagle’s feet, and on his head a creft, and in his left hand holding a
cock of fire.
X 2 CHAP.1 64 , TALISMANIC MAGIC* Part II.
CHAP. XLII.
OF THE IMAGES OF THE MOON,
FROM the operations ofthe Moon they made an image for travellers againfl
wearinefs, at the hour of the Moon, the Moon afcending in its exaltation the
;
figure of which was a man leaning on a ftaff, having a bird on his head, and
a flouriffiing tree before him. They made another image of the Moon for the
increafe of the fruits of the earth, and againft poifons, and infirmities of
children, at the hour of the Moon, it afcending in the firil luce of Cancer
;
the figure of which was a woman cornuted, riding on a bull, or a dragon with
feven heads, or a crab, and Ihe hath in her right hand a dart, in her left a
looking glafs, clothed with white or green, and having on her head two fer-
pents with horns twined together, and to each arm a ferpent twined about, and
to each foot one in like manner. And thus much fpoken concerning the figures
of the planets, may fuffice.
CHAP. XLIII.
OF THE IMAGES OF THE HEAD AND TAIL OF THE DRAGON OF THE MOON-
THEY made, alfo, the image of the head and tail of the Dragon of the
Moon, namely, between an ferial and fiery circle, the likenefs of a ferpent,
with the head of a hawk, tied about them after the manner of the great letter
Theta they made it when Jupiter, with the head, obtained the mid heaven
; ;
which image they affirm to avail much for the fuecefs of petitions, and would
fignify by this image a good and fortunate genius, which they would repre-
fent by this image of the ferpent for the Egyptians and Phoenicians do extol
;
this creature above all others, and fay it is a divine creature, and hath a di-
vine nature for in this is a more acute fpirit, and a greater fire than in any
;
other, which thing is manifelt both by his fwift motion without feet, hands,
orChap. XLIV. TALISMANIC MAGIC. 165
or any other inftruments and alfo that it often renews its age with his fkin,
;
and becomes young again but they made the image of the tail like as when
;
the Moon was eclipfed in the tail, or ill affe6led by Saturn or Mars, and they
made it to introduce anguifh, infirmity, and misfortune : we call it an evil
genius.
THE TALISMAN OF THE DRAGON’s HEAD.
CHAP. XLIV.
OF THE IMAGES OF THE MANSIONS OF THE MOON.
THEY made, alfo, images for every manfion of the Moon as follows
:
In the firft, for the definition of fome one, they made, in an iron ring,
the image of a black man, in a garment of hair, and girdled round, cafting a
fmall lance with his right hand they fealed this in black wax, and perfumed
:
it with liquid florax, and wifhed fome evil to come.
In the fecond, againfl the wrath of the prince, and for reconciliation with
him, they fealed, in white wax and maftich, the image of a king crowned,
and perfumed it with lignum aloes..
In the third, they made an image in a fi-lver ring, whole table was fquare
;
the figure of which was a woman,, well clothed, fitting in a chair, her right
hand being lifted up on her head they fealed it, and perfumed it with miifk,
camphire, and calamus aromaticus. They affirmed that this gives happy for-
tune, and every good thing.
In the fourth, for revenge, feparation, enmity, and ill-will, they fealed, in
red wax, the image of a foldier fitting on a horfe, holding a ferpent in his
right hand : they perfumed it with red myrrh and florax.
In166 TALISMANIC MAGIC. Part II.
In the fifth, for the favour of kings and officers, and good entertainment,
they fealed, in filver, the head of a man, and perfumed it with red fanders.
In the fixth, to procure love between two, they fealed, in white wax, two
images embracing one another, and perfumed them with lignum aloes and
amber.
In the feventh, to obtain every good thing, they fealed, in filver, the image
of a man, well clothed, holding up his hands to Heaven, as it were, praying
and fupplicating, and perfumed it with good odours.
In the eighth, for viHory in war, they made a feal in tin, being an image
of an eagle, having the face of a man, and perfumed it with brimftone.
In the ninth, to caufe infirmities, they made a feal of lead, being the
image of a'man wanting his privy parts, covering his eyes with his hands
;
and they perfumed it with rofm of the pine.
In the tenth, to facilitate child bearing, and to cure the fick, they made a
feal of gold, being the head of a lion, and perfumed it with amber.
In the eleventh, for fear, reverence, and w'orfhip, they made a feal ofa plate
of gold, being the image of a man riding on a lion, holding the ear thereof
in his left hand, and in his right holding forth a bracelet of gold and they
;
perfumed it with good odours and faffron.
In the twelfth, for the reparation of lovers, they made a feal of black lead,
being the image of a dragon fighting wnth a man ; and they perfumed it with
the hairs of a lion, and affafcetida.
In the thirteenth, for the agreement ofmarried people, and for diffolving of
all the charms againfl copulation, they made a feal ofthe images ofboth (ofthe
man in red wax, and the woman in white), and caufed them to embrace one
another perfuming it with lignum aloes and amber.
;
In the fourteenth, for divorce and feparation of the man from the woman,
they made a feal of red copper, being the image of a dog biting his tail and
;
they perfumed it with the hair ofa black dog and a black cat.
In the fifteenth, to obtain friendffiip and good will, they made the image
of a man fitting, and inditing letters, and perfumed it with frankincenfe and
nutmegs.
In
/Chap. XLIV. TALISMANTC MAGIC. 167
In the fixteenth, for gaining much merchandiflng, they made a feal of
filver, being the image of a man, fitting on a chair, holding a balance in his
hand and they perfumed it with well fmelling fpices.
;
In the feventeenth, again!! thieves and robbers, they fealed with an iron
feal the image of an ape, and perfumed it with the hair of an ape.
In the eighteenth, again!! fevers and pains of the belly, they made a feal
of copper, being the image of a fnake with his tail above his head ; and
they perfumed it with hartlhorn ; and faid this fame feal to put to flight fer-
pents, and all venomous creatures, frorh the place where it is buried.
In the nineteenth, for facilitating birth, and provoking the menltrues, they
made a feal of copper, being the image of a woman holding her hands upon
her face and they perfumed it with liquid ftorax.
•,
In the twentieth, for hunting, they made a feal of tin, being the image of
Sagittary, half a man and half a horfe and they perfumed it with the head
j
of a wolf.
In the twenty-fir!!, for the deftru6!ion of fome body, they made the image
of a man, with a double countenance before and behind and they perfumed
;
it with brimltone and jet, and put it in a box of brafs, and with it brimftone
and jet, and the hair of him whom they would hurt.
In the twenty-fecond, for the fecurity of runaways, they made a feal of
iron, being the image of a man, with wings on his feet, bearing a helmet on
his head and they perfumed it with argent vive.
;
In the twenty-third, for deftru6!ion and wafting, they made a feal of iron,
being the image of a cat, having a dog’s head and they perfumed it with
;
dog’s hair taken from the head, and buried it in the place where they intended
the hurt.
In the twenty-fourth, for multiplying herds of cattle, they took the horn
of a ram, bull, or goat, or of that fort of cattle they would increafe, and
fealed in it, burning, with an iron feal, the image of a woman giving fuck to
her fon and they hanged it on the neck of that cattle who was the leader of
;
4he flock, or they fealed it in his horn.
In168 TALISMANIC MAGIC. Part II.
In the twenty-fifth, for the prefervation of trees and harveft, they fealed, in
the wood of a fig- tree, the imag-e of a man planting- ; and they perfumed it
with the flowers of the fig- tree, and hung it on the tree.
In the twenty-fixth, for love and favour, they fealed, in white wax and
maftich, the figure of a woman walhing and combing her hair and they per-
;
fumed it with good odours.
In the twenty-feventh, to deftroy fountains, pits, medicinal waters, and
baths, they made, of red earth, the image of a man winged, holding in his
hand an empty veffel, and perforated and the image being burnt, they put in
;
the veffel affafcetida and liquid ftorax, and they buried it in the pond or
fountain which they would deftroy.
In the twenty-eighth, for getting fifh together, they made a feal of copper,
bemg the image of a fifh and they perfumed it with the Ikin of a fea fifh,
;
and call it into the water where they wrould have the fifh gathered.
Moreover, together with the aforefaid images, they wrote down alfo the
names ol the fpirits, and their chara6ters, and invocated and prayed for thofe
things which they pretended to obtain.
CHAP. XLV.
THAT HUMAN IMPRECATIONS NATURALLY IMPRESS THEIR POWERS UPON EXTERNAL
THINGS AND HOW MAN’S MIND, THROUGH A DEGREE OF DEPENDENCIES, ASCENDS INTO
THE INTELLIGIBLE WORLD, AND BECOMES LIKE TO THE MORE SUBLIME SPIRITS AND
INTELLIGENCES.
THE
celeftial fouls fend forth their virtues to the celeftial bodies, which
tranfmit them to this fenfible world for the virtues of the terrene orb pro-
;
ceed from no other caufe than celeftial. Hence the magician, that will work
by them, ufes a cunning invocation of the fuperiors, with myfterious words
and a certain kind of ingenious fpeech, drawing the one to the other yet by
;
a natural force, through a certain mutual agreement between them, whereby
thingsChap'. XLV. TALISMANIC MAGIC. 169
thing’s follow of their own accord, or fometimes are drawn unwillingly.
Hence fays Ariftotle, in his fixth book ofhis Myftical Philofophy, “ that when
any one, by binding1 or bewitching, calls upon the Sun or other liars, pray-
ing them to aflift the work defired, the Sun and other liars do not hear his
words but are moved, after a certain manner, by a certain conjun6lion and
;
mutual feries, whereby the parts of the world are mutually fubordinate the one
to the other, and have a mutual confent, by reafon of their great union as in
:
a man’s body, one member is moved by perceiving the motion of another
;
and in a harp, one firing is moved by the motion, of another. So when miy
one moves any part of the world, other parts are moved by the perceiving of
—
thatmotion.” Theknowledge, therefore, ofthe dependency ofthingsfollowing
one the other, is the foundation of all wonderful operation, which is neceffa-
rily required to the exercifing the power of attra6ling fuperior virtues. Now
the words of men are certain natural things and becaufe the parts of the
;
world mutually draw one the other therefore a magician invocating by words,
*,
works by powers fitted to Nature, by leading fome by the love ofone to the
other or drawing others, by reafon of the one following after the other or
; ;
by repelling, by reafon of the enmity of one to the other, from the contra-
riety and difference of things, and multitude of virtues which, although they
;
are contrary and different, yet perfe6l one part. Sometimes, alfo, he compels
things by way of authority, by the celeftial virtue, becaufe he is not a ftranger
A
to the heavens. man, therefore, if he receives the imprefiion of a ligation,
or fafcination, doth not receive it according to the rational foul, but fenfual
;
and if he buffers in any part, he fuffers according to the animal part for they
;
cannot draw a knowing and intelligent man by reafon, but by receiving that
imprefiion and force by fenfe inafmuch as the animal fpirit of man ‘is, by
;
the influence of the celeftials, and co-operation of the things of the world,
affe6led beyond his former and natural difpofition. As the fon moves the
father to labour, although unwilling, to keep and maintain him, although
he be wearied and the defire to rule, is moved by anger and other labours to
;
get the dominion and the indigency of nature, and fear of poverty, moves a
man to defire riches and the ornaments and beauty of women, is an incite-
; Y
Book ment
I.—
170 TALISMANIC MAGIC. Part II.
ment to concupifcence and the harmony of a wife mufician moves his hearers
;
with various paffions, whereof fome do voluntary follow the confonancy of art,
others conform themfelves by gefture, although unwilling, becaufe their fenfe
is captivated, their reafon not being intent to thefe things. Hence they fall
into errors, who think thofe things to be above nature, or contrary to nature
We
which indeed are by nature, and according to nature. mull know, there-
fore, that evey fuperior moves its next inferior, in its degree and order, not
only in bodies, but alfo in fpirits : fo the univerfal foul moves the particular
foul the rational aCts upon the fenfual, and that upon the vegetable and
; ;
every part of the world aCts upon another, and every part is apt to be moved
by another. And every part of this inferior world fuffers from the heavens,
according to their nature and aptitude, as one part of the animal body fuf-
fers for another. And the fuperior intellectual world moves all things below'
itfelf and, after a manner, contains all the fame beings, from the firft to the
;
lall, which are in the inferior world., Celeftial bodies, therefore, move the
bodies of the elementary world, compounded, generable, fenfible (from the
circumference to the center), by fuperior, perpetual, and fpiritual offences, de-
pending on the primary intellect, which is the aCting intellect but upon the
;
virtue put in by the word of God which word the wife Chaldeans of Babylon
;
call, the Caufe of Caufes ; becaufe from it are produced all beings : the aCt-
ing intellect, which is the fecond, from it depends and that by reafon of the
;
union of this word with the Firft Author, from whom all things being are truly
—
produced : the wor — d, therefore, is the image of God the aC — ting intellect, the
image of the word the foul is the image of this intellect and our word is
the image of the foul, by which it aCts upon natural things naturally, becaufe
nature is the work thereof. And every one of thofe perfeCts his fubfequent : as
a father his fon and none ofthe latter exifts without the former foMhey are
; —;
depending among themfelves by a kind of ordinate dependency fo that when
the latter is corrupted, it is returned into that which was next before it, until
it come to the heavens then to the univerfal foul and, laftly, into the aCting
; ;
intellect, by which all other creatures exift and itfelf exifts in the principal
;
author, which is the creating word of God, to which, at length, all things are
returned.Chap. XLV. TALISMANIC MAGIC. 171
returned. Our foul, therefore, if it will work any wonderful thing1 in thefe
inferiors, mufi have refpeCl to their beginning, that it may be ftrengthened
and iiiuflrated by that, and receive power of acting through each degree, from
the very firfl Author. — Therefore we mull be more diligent in contemplating
the fouls of the liars then their bodies, and the fuper-celeltial and intellectual
—
world then the celeltial, corporeal, becaufe that is more noble although,
;
alfo, this be excellent, and the way to that, and without which medium the
influenceof the fuperior cannot be attained to. As for example : the Sun is
the king ofliars, moll full of light but receives it from the intelligible world,
;
above all other liars, becaufe the foul thereof is more capable of intelligible
fplendour. Wherefore he that defires to attraCl the influence of the Sun, mull
contemplateuponthe Sun not only by the fpeculation ofthe exterior light, but
;
alfo of the interior. And no man can do this, unlefs he return to the foul of the
Sun, and become like to it, and comprehend the intelligible light thereof with
an intelleClual fight, as the fenfible light with the corporeal eye for this man
;
lhall be filled with the light thereof, and the light whereof, which is an under
type imprelfed by the fupernal orb, it receives into itfelf with the illullration
;
whereof his intelled being endowed, and truly like to it, and being affifted by
it, lhall at length attain to that fupreme brightnefs, and to all forms that par-
take thereof and when he hath received the light of the fupreme degree, then
;
his foul lhall come to perfection, and be made like to fpirits of the Sun, and
lhall attain to the virtues and illullrations of the fupernatural virtue, and lhall
enjoy the power of them, ifhe has obtained faith in the Firfl Author.. In the
full place, therefore, we mull implore affillance from the Firfl Author and
;
praying, not only with mouth, but a religious gellure and fupplicant foul,
alfo abundantly, inceifantly, and fincerely, that he would enlighten our mind,
and remove darknefs, growing upon our fouls by reafon of our bodies.
Y2
GHAP.172 TALISMANIC MAGIC. Part II.
CHAP. XLVI.
TIIE CONCLUSION OF THE CONSTELLATORY PRACTICE, OR TALISMANIC MAGIC; IN WHICH
IS INCLUDED THE KEY OF ALL THAT HAS BEEN WRITTEN UPON THIS SUBJECT; SHEW-
ING THE PRACTICE OF IMAGES, &C. BY WAY OF EXAMPLE, AND LIKEWISE THE NECES-
SARY OBSERVATIONS OF THE CELESTIALS, TOWARDS TIIE PERFECTION OF TALISMANICAL
OPERATIONS.
WE
will now fhew thee the obfervations of celeflial bodies, which are re-
quired for the pradlice of thefe thing's, which are briefly as follow :
To make any one fortunate, wre make an imag-e at that time in which the
figniftcaior of life ihe giver of life or Hylech the Jigns and planeis
, , , y
are fortunate let the afcendant and mid-heaven, and the lords thereof be for-
:
tunate and alfo the place of the Sun and Moon part of fortune and lord of
; ;
conjunction or prevention, made before their nativity, by deprefling- the ma-
lignant planets, i. e. taking the times when they are deprefled. But if we
would make an image to procure mifery, we mutt do contrary to this and
;
thofe which we before placed fortunate, we mult now make unfortunate, by
taking the malignant ftars when they rule. And the famemeans we muft take
to make any place, region, city, or houfe unfortunate. But if you would
make any one unfortunate who hath injured you, let there be an image made
under the afcenfion of that man whom thou wouldft make unfortunate and
;
thou flialt take, when unfortunate, the lord of the houfe of his life, the lord of
the afcendant and the Moon, thelord ofthe houfe of the Moon, the lord of the
houfe of the lord afcending, and the tenth houfe and the lord thereof. Now,
for the building, fuccefs, or fitting ofany place, place fortunes in the afcendant
thereof and in the firfl and tenth, and fecond and eighth houfe, thou flialt
;
make the lord of the afcendant, and the lord of the houfe of the Moon, for-
tunate. But to chafe away certain animals (from any place) that are noxious
to thee, that they may not generate or abide there, make an image under the
afcenfion of that animal which thou wouldft chafe away or deftroy, and after
the likenefs thereof for inftance, now, fuppofe thou wouldft with to chafe away
;
fcorpions from any place let an image of a fcorpion be made, the fign
;
Scorpio'173
Chap. XLVI. TALISMANIC MAGIC.
Scorpio afcending with the Moon then thou flialt make unfortunate the
;
afcendant, and the lord thereof, and the lord of the houfe of Mars; and thou
thalt make unfortunate the lord of the afcendant in the eighth houfe ; and let
them be joined with an afpetft malignant, as oppofite or fquare, and write upon
the image the name ofthe afcendant, and of the lord thereof, and the Moon,
the lord of the day and hour and let there be a pit made in the middle of
;
the place from which thou wouldtt drive them, and put into it fome earth taken
out of the four corners of the—fame place, then bury the image there, with
the head downwards, faying “ This is the burying of the Sco — rpions, that
they may be forced to leave, and come no more into this place.” And fo do
by the reft.
Now for gain, make an image under the afcendant of that man to whom
thou wouldft appoint the gain and thou thalt make the lord of the fecond
•,
houfe, which is the houfe of fubftance, to be joined with the lord of the
afcendant, in a trine or fextile afpedt, and let there be a reception amongft
them thou thalt make fortunate the eleventh, and the lord thereof, and the
;
eighth and, if thou canft, put part of fortune in the afcendant or fecond
; ;
and let the image be buried in that place, or from that place, to which thou
wouldft appoint the gain or fortune. Likewife, for agreement or love, let be
made an image in the day of Jupiter, under the afcendant of the nativity of
him whom you would wifh to be beloved make fortunate the afcendant and
;
the tenth, and hide the evil from the afcendant and you muft have the lords
;
of the tenth, and planets of the eleventh, fortunate, joined to the lord of the
afcendant, from the trine or fextile, with reception then proceed to make an-
;
other image, for him Whom thou wouldft ftir up to love whether it be a
;
friend, or female, or brother, or relation, or companion of him whom thou
wouldft have favoured or beloved, if fo, make an image under the afcenfion of
the eleventh houfe from the afcendant of the firft image but if the party be a
;
wife, or a hufband, let it be made under the afcenfion of the feventh if a bro-
;
ther, filter, or coufin, under the afcenfion of the third houfe if a mother, of
;
the tenth, and fo on now let the fignificator of the afcendant of the fecond
image be joined to the. fignificator of the afcendant of the firft, and let there
^ be17i TALISMANIC MAGIC. Part II.
be between them a reception, and let the reft be fortunate, as in the firft
image ; afterwards join both the images together in a mutual embrace, or
put the face of the fecond to the back of the firft, and let them be wrapped
up in filk, and caft away or fpoiled.
Alfo, for the fuccefs of petitions, and obtaining ofa thing denied, or taken,
cr poffeffed by another, make an image under the afcendant of him who peti-
tions for the thing and caufe the lord of the fecond houfe to be joined with
•,
the lord of the afcendant, from a trine or Textile afpeft, and let there be a re-
ception betwixt them ; and, if it can be fo, let the lord of the fecond be in
the obeying figns, and the lord of afcendant in the ruling make fortunate-
:
the afcendant and the lord thereof and beware that the lord of the afcendant
;
be not retrograde, or combuft, or cadent, or in the houfe of oppofition, i. e. in
the feventh from his own houfe let him not be hindered by the malignant
-,
planets, but let him be ftrong and in an angle thou fhalt make fortunate the
;
afcendant, and the lord of the fecond, and the Moon and make another
:
image for him that is petitioned to, and begin it under the afcendant belonging
to him : as if he is a king, or prince, &c. begin it under the afcendant of the
tenth houfe from the afcendant ofthe firft image if a father, under the fourth
; ;
if a fon, under the fifth, and fo of the like then put the fignificator of the
;
fecond image, joined with the lord of the afcendant of the firft image from a
trine or Textile, and let him receive it and put them both ftrong and for-
;
tunate, without any hinderance make all evil fall from, them thou fhalt
; ;
make fortunate the tenth and the fourth, if thou canft, or any of them and
;
when the fecond image fhall be perfect, join it with the firft, face to face,
and wrap them in clean linen, and bury them in the middle of his houfe who
is the petitioner, under a fortunate fignificator, thefortune beingJirong ; and
let the face of the firft image be towards the north, or rather towards that place
where the thing petitioned for doth remain or, ifit happens that the petitioner
;
goes forward to obtain the thing defired or petitioned for, let him carry the
faid images with him. Thus we have given, in a few examples, the key of
all Talifmanical operations whatfoever, by which wonderful effects may be
wrought either by images, by rings, by glalfes, by feals, by tables, or any
other.
Mat/ick crTalismans
'Seals.
P
Mate. Jt9
Pub. byLcLc/cincrton^Allen & CoChap. XLVI. TALISMANIC MAGIC, 175
other magical inftruments whatfoever but as thefe have their chief' grounds
;
in the true knowledge of the effedts of the planets, and the rifing of the con-
ftellations, we recommend an earned; attention to that part ofAftrology* which
teaches of the power, influences, and effects of the celeflial bodies amongft
themfelves generally likewife, we would recommend the artift to be expert
;
in the afpedts, motions, declinations, riflings, &c. &c. of the feven planets, and
perfectly to underftand their natures, either mixed or Ample alfo, to be ready
;
and correct in the erecting of a figure, at any time, to fliew the true poflition
of the heavens there being fo great a fympathy between the celeflials and
;
ourfelves and to obflerve all the other rules which we have plentifully recited
; :
and, without doubt, the induflrious fludent fhall receive the fatisfadtion of
bringing his operations and experiments to effedt that which he ardently defires.
With which, wilhing all fuccefls to the contemplator of the creature and the
Creator, we will here clofe up this Second Part of pur Work, and the conclu-
flion of our Book of Talifmanical Magic.
* Thofe who would be perfect in the neceflary knowledgeofAftrology, ought to fludy from Coley, his
—
book, called Clavis Aftrologias Elimata, or his Key new filed—Salmon’s Soul of Aftrology Lilley’s, or
Partridge’s, Vade Mecum—or Middleton’s Aftrology.
THE END OF THE FIRST BOOS.
KnightandCompton,Typ.* MiddleStreet,
ClothFair,\
IfTHE
OR,
.
CELESTIAL INTELLIGENCER.
BOOK PART
II. I.
CONTAINING
MAGNETISM,
AND
CABALISTICAL MAGIC;
DISCOVERING
THE SECRET MYSTERIES
OF
CELESTIAL MAGIC.
With theArtofcalculating bythe divineNames ofGod ; (hewing the Rule, Order, andGovernment of
ANGELS, INTELLIGENCES, AND BLESSED SPIRITS, HOLY TABLES AND
SEALS, TABLES OF THE CABALA, &c.
LikewifetreatingofCeremonial Magic, InvocationofSpirits, Confecrations, Circles, &c.
Alfo of Dreams, Phophecy, Miracles, &c.
FRANCIS BARRETT,
Br
STUDENT OF CHEMISTRY, NATURAL AND OCCULT PHILOSOPHY, THE CABALA, &C.
TO WHICH IS ADDED,
A Tranflation of the Works of Tritemius of Spanheim, viz.
His Book of Secret Things, and of Spirits,
Book B
II,
\V,Btoekaier,Printer,Toek’sCourt,ChanceryLane,THE
MAGUS,
CONTAINING
MAGNETISM,
AND
CABALISTICAL MAGIC.
TO WHICH 18 ADDED
A TREATISE
ON
PROPHECY, PROPHETIC DREAMS AND INSPIRATION.
BOOK PART
II. I.
MAGNETISM.
In
our following Treatife ofMagnetifm we have collected and arranged in
order fome valuable and fecret things out of the writings of that molt
learned chemift and philofopher Paracelfus, who was the ornament of Ger-
many and the age he lived in. Likewife we have extracted the very marrow
of the fcience ofMagnetifm out of the copious and elaborate works of that
moil celebrated philofopher (by fire) Van Helmont, who, together with Pa-
racelfus, induftrioufly promulgated all kinds of magnetic and fympathetic
cures, which, through the drowfinefs, ignorance, unbelief, and obftinacy of
B 2 \ * * the
i4 MAGNETISM. Book II.
the prefent age, have been fo much and fo totally neglected and condemned
j
yet, however impudent in their adertions, and bigotted to their own falfe
opinions, fome ofour modern philofophers may be, yet we have feen two or
three individuals, who, by dint ofperfeverance, have proved the truth and
poffibility of Magnetifm, by repeated and public experiments. Indeed the
ingenious invention of the Magnetic TraCtors prove at once that fcience fhould
never be impeded by public flander or mifreprefentation of faCts that have
proved to be of general utility. And we do not doubt but that we £hall
be able to fhew, by the theory and practice delivered in the fequel, that many
excellent cures may be performed by a due confideration and attentive obfer-
vance of the principles upon which fympathy, antipathy, magnetic at-
traction, &c. are founded and which will be fully illuftrated in the fol-
;
lowing compendium
:
We
fhall haften to explain the firft principles of Magnetifm, by examin-
ing the magnetic or attractive power.
CHAP.
I.
* THE MAGNETIC, OR ATTRACTIVE TOWER OR FACULTY.'
AS concerning an aCtion locally at a diftance, wines do fugged: a demon-
ftration unto us : for, every kind of wine, although it be bred out of
co-bordering provinces, and likewife more timely bloffoming elfewhere, yet
it is troubled while our country vine flowereth ; neither doth fuch a dif-
turbance ceafe as long as the flower fhall not fall off from our vine ; which
thing furely happens, either from a common motive-caufe of the vine and
wine, or from a particular difpofition of the vine, the which indeed troubles
the wine, and doth fhake it up and down with a confufed temped: : or like-
wife, becaufe the wine itfelf doth thus trouble itfelf ofits own free accord,
* Van Helmont.
by.
MAGNETISM,
Part I. 5
by reafon of the flowers of the vine : of both the which latter, if there be a
fore-touched conformity, confent, co-grieving, or congratulation at leaf,
;
that cannot but be done by an adtion at a dillance to wit, if the wine be
:
troubled in a cellar under ground, whereunto no vine perhaps is near for fome
miles, neither is there any difcourfe of the air under the earth, with the
flower ofthe abfent vine but, if they will accufe a common caufe for fuch
;
an effedl, they mull either run back to the liars, which cannot be controuled
by our pleafures and liberties of boldnefs or, I fay, we return to a confef-
;
lion of an addon at a dillance to wit, that fome one and the fame, and as
:
yet unknown Ipirit, the mover, doth govern the abfent wine, and the vine
which is at a far dillance, and makes them to talk and fuffer together. But,
as to what concerns the power of the liars, I am unwilling, as neither dare I,
according to my own liberty, to extend the forces, powers, or bounds of the
liars beyond or belides the authority of the facred text, which faith (it being
pronounced from a divine tellimony) that the liars lhall be unto us for figns,-
feafons, days, and years : by which rule, a power is never attributed to the
liars, that wine bred in a foreign foil, and brought unto us from far, doth
dillurb, move, or render itfelf confufed : for, the vine had at fome time
received a power of encrealing and multiplying itfelf before the liars were
born : and vegetables were before the liars, and the imagined influx of thefe :
wherefore alfo, they cannot be things conjoined in elfence, one whereof
could confill without the other. Yea, the vine in fome places flowereth
more timely and, in rainy, or the more cold years, our vine flowereth more
llowly, whofe flower and llages of flourilhing the wine doth, notwithftanding,
imitate and fo neither doth it refped the liars, that it Ihould dillurb itfelfat
;
their beck.
In the nextplace, neither doth the winehearken unto the flourilhingorblof-
foming ofany kind ofcapers, but of the wine alone and therefore we mull not
:
flee unto an univerfal caufe, the general or univerfai ruling air ofworldly fuc-
ceffive change; to wit,-we may rather run back unto impoflibilities and ab-
furdities,than untothe moll nearcommerces of.refemblance and unity, although
hitherto unpalfable by the fchools.
Moreover*:::
6 MAGNETISM. Book
II.
Moreover, that thing doth as yet far more manifeftly appear in ale or beer
when, in times paft, our anceflors had feen that ofbarley, after whatfoever
manner it was boiled, nothing but an empty ptrfana or barley-broth, or alfo a
pulp was cooked they meditated, that the barley firft ought to bud (which
;
then they called malt)and next,they nakedly boiled their ales, imitating wines
wherein, firft ofall, fome remarkable things do meet in one ; to wit, there is
ftirred up in barley, a vegetable bud, the which when the barley is dried, doth
afterwards die, and lofeth the hope ofgrowing, and fo much the more by its
changing into meal, and afterwards by an after-boiling, it defpairs ofa growing
virtue yet thefe things nothing hindering, it retains the winey and intoxicat-
;
ing fpirit ofaqua vitae, the which notwithftanding it doth not yet actually pof-
fefs : but at length, in number of days, it attaineth it by virtue of a ferment
to wit, in the one only bofom ofone grain one only fpirit is made famous with
diverfe powers, and one power is gelded, another being left: which thing
indeed, doth as yet more wonderfully fhine forth when as the ale or beer of
;
malt difturbs itfelf while the barley flowereth, no otherwife than as wine is
elfewhere wont to do : and fo a power at a far abfent diftance is from hence
plain to be feen : for truly there are cities from whom pleafant meadows doex-
pel the growing of barley for many miles and by £o much the more power-
;
fully doales prove their agreement with theabfent flowering barley in as much
;
as the gelding of their power hath withdrawn the hopes of budding and in-
creaflng and at length the aqua vitae being detained and fhut up within the
:
ale, hogfhead, and prifon of the cellar, cannot with the fafety of the ale or
beer wandering for fome leagues unto the flowering earofbarley, that thereby,
as a ftormy returner, it may trouble the remaining ale with much confuflon.
Certainly there is a far more quiet paflage for a magnetical or attractive agree-
ment among fome agents at a far diftance from each other, than there is to
dream an aqua vitas wandering out of the ale ofa cellar, unto the flowering
barley, and from thence to return unto the former receptacles of its pen-cafe,
and ale But the flgn imprinted by the appetiteofa woman great with child,on
:
her young, doth fitly,andalike clearly confirm a magnetifm or attractivefaculty
and its operation at a diftance : to wit, let there be a woman great with child,
whichMAGNATISM.
Part I. 7
which defires another cherry, let her but touch her forehead or any other
place with her finger without doubt, the young is figned in its forehead with
;
theimage of the cherry, which afterwards doth every year wax green, white,
yellow, and at length looks red, according to the tenor of the trees : and it much
morewonderfully exprefles the fame fucceflive alteration ofmaturities in Spain
than in Germany and fo hereby an allion at a diftance is not only confirmed,
:
butalfoaconformityoragreement ofthe eflences ofthecherry tree, in its wood-
en and flefhly trunk a confanguinity or near affinity ofa being imprefled upon
;
the part by an inftantaneous imagination, and by a fucceffive courfe of the
years ofits kernel; furelythe more learned ought riotto imputejthofe thingsunto
evil fpirits, which, through their own weaknefs, they are ignorant of ; for thefe
things do on all fides occur in nature, the which, through our flendernefs, we
are not able to unfold for to refer whatfoever gifts of God are in nature (be-
;
caufe our dull capacity does not comprehend the fame rightly) to the devil,
fhews both ignorance and raffinefs, efpecially when, as all demonftration of
caufes from a former thing or caufe is baniffied from us, and efpecially from
Ariftotle, who was ignorant ofall nature, and deprived of the good gifts which
defcends from the Father ofLights; unto whom be all honourand glory.
We
Note. may, by the aforefaid chapter, fee the wonderful working power of
the attractive or univerfal fpirit, which can by no other means be fo clearly de-
monstrated as by the fympathies in natural things, which are inherent through-
out all nature ; and, upon this principle of fympathy and antipathy, we fay is
founded that fpiritual power which tends to things and objects remote one
from the other, i. e. a magnetic attraction, which does actually exift, as we
Shall clearly prove by experiment, where we fully (hew the aCtion and paffion
that is between natural fpirits, by which means wonderful effeCts are produced,
which have ignorantly been attributed to divers fuperftitions, as Sorcery, In-
chantment Nigromancy, or the Black Art &c.
, ,
CHAP.MAGNETISM. Book
II.
CHAP.
II.
OF SYMPATHETIC MEDICINES.
IN the year 1639, a little book came forth, whofe title was, f The Sympa-
thetical Powder ofEdricius Mohynus, of Eburo,’ whereby wounds are cured
without application of the medicine unto the part afflided, and without fu-
perdition ; it being fifted by the fieve of the reafons of Galen and Arido-
tle ; wherein it is Aridotetically, diffidently, proved, whatfoever the title of
it promifes but it hath negleded the directive faculty or virtue which
; , ,
may bring the virtues of the fympathetical powder, received in the bloody
towel or napkin, unto the didant wound.
Truly, from a wound, the venal blood, _ or corrupt pus, or fanies, from an
ulcer, being received in the towel, do receive, indeed, a balfam from a fana-
tive or healing being; I fay, from the power of the vitriol, a medicinal
power connected and limited in the aforefaid mean but the virtues of the
;
balfam received are directed unto the wounded object, not indeed by an influ-
ential virtue ofthe Ears, and much lefs do they fly forth of their own accord
unto the objed at a diftance : therefore the ideas of him that applieth
the' fympathetical remedy are connected in the mean, and are made direc-
trefles of the balfam unto the objed of his deflre even as we have above
:
alfo minded by injedions concerning ideas of the defire. Mohyns fuppofed
that the power of fympathy depends upon the ftars, becaufe it is an imi-
tator of influences : but I draw it out of a much nearer fubjed : to wit, out
of direding ideas, begotten by their mother Charity, or a defire of good-
will : for, from hence does that fympathetic powder operate more fuccefs-
fully, being applied by the hand ofone than another : therefore I have always
obferved the bed procefs where the remedy is inflituted by a defire of cha-
rity ; but, that it doth fucceed, with fmall fuccefs, if the operator be a care-
lefs or drunken perfon and, from hence, I have more edeemed the dars of
:
theMAGNETISM.
Fart I. 9
the mind, in fympathetical remedies, than the Stars of heaven but that
:
images, being conceived, are brought unto an objed at a diltance, a pregnant
woman is an example of, becaufe the is the who prefently transfers all the
ideas ofher conception on her young, which dependeth no otherwife on the
mother than from a communion of univerfal nourishment. Truly, feeing
fuch a direction of delire is plainly natural, it is no wonder that the evil fpirit
doth require the ideas of the delires ofhis imps to be annexed unto a mean
offered by him. Indeed, the ideas of the defire are after the manner
of the influences of heaven call into a proper objed how locally re-
mote foever that is, they are direded by the defire, efpecially pointing out
;
an objed for itfelf, even as the light of the balilifk, or touch of the torpedo,
is refleded on their willed objed ; for I have already Shewn in its place,
that the devil doth not attribute fo much as any thing in the diredions of
things injeded but that he hath need of a free, direding, and operative
;
power or faculty. But I will not difgrace fympathetical remedies becaufe
the devil operates fomething about things injeded into the body for what
:
have fympathetical remedies in common ? Although Satan doth co-operate in
injedions by wicked natural means required from his bond Slaves for every
;
thing Shall be judged guilty, or good, from its ends and intents : and it is
fufficient that fympathetical remedies do agree with things injeded in natural
?neans or medicines.
,
CHAP.
III.
OF THE MAGNETIC OR SYMPATHETIC UNGUENT, THE POWDER OF SYMPATHY, ARMARY UN.
GUENT, CURING OF WOUNDS, ECSTASIES, WITCHCRAFT, MUMMIES, &C.
WE
Shall now Show fome remarkable operations that are effeded by
magnetifm, and founded upon natural fympathy and antipathy, likewife how
by thefe means fome extraordinary cures may be performed.
Book C The
II.;
10 MAGNETISM. Book IL
The goodnefs of the Creator ever f y where extended, created every thing
for the ufe of ungrateful man ; neither did he admit any of the theologifts,
or divines, as afiiftants in council, how many or how great virtues he fhould
infufe into things natural. But there are thofe who venture to meafure the
wonderful works of God by their own Sharpened and refined wit, whereby
they deny God to have given fuch virtue to things as though man (a worm)
;
was able, by his narrow and limited capacity, to comprehend Omnifcience
he therefore meafures the minds of all men by his own, who think that can-
not be done, which they cannot underhand. They therefore can only deve-
lope the myfteries of nature, who being verfed in the art of Cabala, Fire, and
Magic, examined the properties of things, and draw, from darknefs into
light, the lurking powers ofMan, Animals Vegetables Minerals and Stones
, , , ;
and, feparating the crudities, dregs, poifons, heterogenities, that are the thorns
implanted in virgin nature from the curfe. For an obferver of nature fees
daily (he doth difiil, fublime, calcine, ferment, dijfiolve, coagulate,fix. See. there-
fore we who are the minifters of nature do feparate, &c. finding out the
caufes and effects of every phaenomena (lie produces.
Now, as magnetifm is ordained for the ufe of man, and for the curing of
the various diforders incident to human nature, we (hall firft touch upon the
grand fubjedt of magnetifm, known to pofiefs wonderful properties, and
which are not only evident to every eye, but (hew us fufficient grounds for
our admitting the poflibility and reality ofmagnetifm in general.
The loadftone pofiefies an eminent medicinal faculty againft many violent
and implacable diforders. Helmont fays, that the back ofthe loadftone, as it
repulfes iron, fo alfo it removes gout, fwellings, rheum, &c. that is of the
nature or quality of iron. The iron-attradling faculty, if it be joined to the
mummy ofa woman, and the back of the loadftone be put within her thigh,
and the belly of the loadftone on her loins, it fafely prevents a mifearriage,
already threatened but the belly of the loadftone applied within the thigh and
;
the back to her loins, it doth wonderfully facilitate her delivery.
Likewife the wearing the loadftone eafes and prevents the cramp, and fuch
like diforders and pains.
UldericusMAGNETISM*
Part I. II
Uldericus Balk, a dominican friar, publiflied a book at Frankfort in the
year 1611, concerning the lamp of life in which we fhall find (taken from
;
Paracelfus) the true magnetical cure of many difeafes, viz. the dropfy, gout,
jaundice, &c. For if thou fhalt enclofe the warm blood of the fick in the
lhell and white of an egg, which is expofed to a nourifhing warmth, and
this blood, being mixed with a piece of flefh, thou fhalt give to a hungry
dog, the diforder departs from thee into the dog no otherwife than the
;
leprofy ofNaaman pafled over into Gehazi through the execration of the pro-
phet.
If women, weaning their infants, fhall milk out their milk upon hot
burning coals, the bread: foon dries.
If any one happens to commit nuifance at thy door, and thou wilt prevent
that beaddy trick in future, take the poker red-hot, and put it into the ex-
crement, and, by magnetifm, his poderiors fhall become much fcorched
and inflamed.
Make a fmall table of the lighted:, whited:, and bafed: kind of lead and
;
at one end put a piece of amber, and, three fpans from it, lay a piece of
green vitriol; this vitriol will foon lofe its colour and acid: both which ef-
fects are found in the preparation of amber. The root ofthe Caroline thif-
tle being plucked up when full of juice and virtue, and tempered with the
mummy
of a man, will exhaud: the powers and natural ftrength out of a
man, on whofe fliadow thou ihalt ftand, into thyfelf.12 MAGNETISM, Book I?>
CHAP.
IV.
OF THE ARMARY UNGUENT, OR WEAPON SAEVE, &C.
THE
principal ingredient in this confection, is the mofs of a dead man’s
(hull, which Van Helmont calls the excrefcencies or fuperAuities of
Now
the ftars. the mofs growing on the Ikull ofa dead man, feeing it has re-
ceived its feed from the heavens, but its increafe from the mummial marrow of
the Ikull of man, or tower of the microcofm, has obtained excellent aftral and
magnetic powers beyond the common condition of vegetables, although herbs,
as they are herbs, want not their own magnetifm.
Now, the magnetifm ofthis unguent draws out that Arrange difpofition from
the wound (which otherwife, by a difunion of the parts that held together,
and by which, I fay, Arrange difpoAtion and foreign quality is produced) from
whence it Aips, not being overburdened or oppreAed by any accident, fuddenly
grow together and this is effected by the armary unguent, or weapon falve.
;
From this it appears that the unguent, or weapon falve, its property is to heal
fuddenly and perfectly without pain, coArs, peril, or lofs of Arrength ; hence it
is manifeAr that the magnetical virtue is from God.
It is now feafonable to difcover the immediate caufe of magnetifm in the
unguent.
FirAr of all, by the confent of tnyftical divines, we divide man into the ex-
ternal and internal man, aAigning to both the powers of a certain mind, or
intelligence : for fo there doth a will belong to fleAi and blood, which may not
be either the will ofman or the will ofGod and the heavenly Father alfo re-
veals fome things unto the more inward man, and fome things flefh and blood
reveals, that is, the outward and fenfitive, or animal man. For, how could
the fervice of idols, envy, &c. be rightly numbered among the works of the
flefta feeing they confiftonly in the imagination, if the AeAr had not alfo its own
3
imagination and elective will ?
Furthermore, that there are miraculous ecftafies belonging to the more in-
ward man, is beyond difpute. That there are alfo ecftafies in the animal man,
by;,,
MAGNETISM.
Part I. 13
by reafon ofan intenfe, or heightend imagination, is, without doubt. Martin
del Ris, an elder ofthe fociety ofJefus, in his Magical Difquilitions or Enqui-
ries, makes mention ofa certain young man in the city Infulis, that was tranf-
ported with fo violent a delire of feeing his mother, that through the fame
intenfe delire, as if being rapt up by an ecftafy, he faw her perfectly, although
many miles abfent from thence and, returning again to himfelf, being mind-
;
ful ofali that he had feen, gave many true ligns ofhis true prefence with his
mother.
Now that defire arofe from the more outward man, viz. from blood and
fenfe, or llelh, is certain ; for, otherwile, the foul being once diflodged, orloof-
ened from the bonds ofthe body, cannot, except by miracle, be reunited to it
there is therefore in the blood a certain ecllatical or tranfporting power, which,
if at any time lhall be excited or ftirred up by an ardent delire and mod; lirong
imagination, it is able to conduit the fpirit of the more outward man even to
fome abfent and far dillant objeit, but then that power lies hid in the more
outward man, as it were, in potential or by way of polfibility; neither is it
brought into ait, unlefs it be roufed- up by the imagination, inflamed ancLagi--
tated by a molt fervent and violent delire
CHAP
V.
•F TUB IMAGINATIVE POWER AND THE MAGNETISM OF THE NATURAL SPIRITS, MUMMIAJ.
ATTRACTION, SYMPATHIES OF ASTRAL SPIRITS, WITH THEIR BODIES, UPON WHICH THE
WHOLE ART. OF NECROMANCY IS FOUNDED..
MOREOVER, when as the blood is after fome fort corrupted, then indeed 1
vall the powers thereof which,without aforegoing excitation of the imagination,
were before in poflibility, are oftheir own accord, drawn forth into aition for,
;
through corruption of the grain, the feminal virtue, otherwife d^owfy, and
,
barren, breaks forth into ait becaufe,.that feeing the eflences of things, and
;
theirMAGNETISM.
Book
II.
their vital fpirits, know not how to putrify by the dififolution of the inferior
harmony, they fprung up as furviving afrefh. For, from thence it is that every
occult property, the compad of their bodies being by foregoing digeftion,
(which we call putrifadion) now dilfolved, comes forth free to hand, difpatch-
ed, and manifell: for adion.
Therefore when a wound, through the entrance ofair, hath admitted of an
adverfe quality, from whence the blood forthwith fwells with heat or rage in
its lips, and otherwife becomes mattery, it happens, that the blood in the
woundjuft made, by reafon ofthe faid foreign quality, doth now enter into the
beginning of fome kind of corruption (which blood being alfo then received
on the weapon or fplinter thereof, is befmeared with the magnetic ungent) the
which entrance of corruption, mediating the ecftatical power lurking poten-
tially in the blood, is brought forth into adion ; which power, becaufe it is an
exiled returner unto its own body, by reafon of the hidden ecftafy; hence
that blood bears an individual refped unto the blood ofits whole body. Then
indeed the magnetic or attradive faculty is bufied in operating in the un-
guent, and through the mediation of the ecftatical power (for fo I call it for
want of an etymology) fucks out the hurtful quality from the lips of the
wound, and at length, through the mummial, balfamical, and attradive virtue,
attained in the unguent, the magnetifm is perfeded.
So thou haft now the pofitive reafon of the natural magnetifm in the un-
guent, drawn from natural magic, whereunto the light oftruth aflents faying,
;
“ where the treafure is there is the heart alfo.”
For if the treafure be in heaven, then the heart, that is, the fpirit ofthe
internal man is in God, who is the paradife, who alone is eternal life.
But ifthe treafure be fixed or laid up in frail and mortal things, then alfo
the heart and fpirit ofthe external man is in fading things ; neither is there any
caufe ofbringing in a myftical fenfe, by taking not the fpirit, but the cogita-
tion and naked defire, for the heart for that would contain a frivolous thing,
;
that wherefoever a man fhould place his treafure in his thought or cogitation,
there his cogitation would be.
Alfo truth itfelfdoth not interpret the prefent text myftically,and alfo by an
example adjoined, Ihews a local and real prefence of the eagles with the dead
carcafs.MAGNETISM.
Fart I. *5
carcafs, To alfo that the fpirit ofthe inward man is locally in the kingdom of
God in us, which is God himfelf; and that the heart or fpirit ofthe animal or
outward fenfitive man is locally about its treafure.
What wonder is it, that the aftral fpirits of carnal or animal men fhould, as
yet, after their funerals, fhew themfelves asin a bravery, wandering about their
buried treafure, whereunto the whole of Necromancy (or art of divination by
the calling of fpirits) ofthe antients hath enflaved itfelf?
I fay, therefore, that the internal man is an animal orliving creature, making
ufe ofthe reafon and will ofblood but, in the mean time, not barely an ani-
:
mal, but moreover the image ofGod.
Logicians therefore may fee how defectively they define a man from the
power ofrational difcourfe. But of thefe things more elfewhere.
I will therefore adjoin the magnetifm of eagles to carcafies for neither are
;
flying fowls endowed with fuch an acute fmelling, that they can, with a mu-
tualconfent, gofrom Italy into Africa unto carcafies.
For neither is an odour, fo largely anduvidely fpread for the ample latitude
;
of the interpofed fea hinders it, and alfo a certain elementary property ofcon-
,
fuming it; nor is there any ground that thou fhouldefl: think thefe birds do
perceive the dead carcafies at fo far a diftance, with there fight, efpecially if
thofe birds fhall lie foutliwards behind a.mountain.
But what need is there to enforce the magnetifm offowls by many argu-
ments, fince God himfelf, who is the beginning and end of philofophy, doth
exprefsly determine the fame procefs to be of the heart and treafure, with thefe
birds and the carcafs, and fo interchangeably between thefe and them
?
For ifthe eagles were led to their food, the carcafies, with the fame appetite
whereby four-footed beafts areBrought on to their paftures, certainly he had
faid, in one word, that living creatures flock to their food even as the heart of.
man to his treafure which would contain a falfehood for neither doth the
; :
heart ofman proceed unto its treafure, that he may be filled therewith, as liv-
ing creatures do to their meat; and therefore the comparifon ofthe heart of
man and of the eagle lies not in the end for which they, tend or incline to a
defire, but in the manner of tendency namely that they are allured and carri-
;
ed on by magnetifm, really and locally.
Therefor©;
16 MAGNETISM. Book
II.
Therefore the fpirit and will of the blood fetched out of-the wound, having
intruded itfelf into the ointment by the weapon being anointed therewith, do
tend towards their treafure, that is, the reft ofthe blood as yet enjoying the life
of the more inward man : but he faith by a peculiar teftimony, that the eagle
is drawn to the carcafs, becaufe flue is called thereunto by an implanted and
mummial fpirit of the carcafs, but not by the odour of the putrifying body for
:
indeed that animal, in affimilating, appropritates to himfelfonly this mummial
fpirit : for from thence it is faid ofthe eagle, in a peculiar manner/* my youth
fhall be renewed as the eagle’s.”
For truly the renewing ofher youth proceeds from an eftential extraction of
the mummial fpirit being well refined by a certain fingular digeftion proper to
that fowl, and not from a bare eating of the flefh of the carcafs otherwife
;
dogs alfo and pies would be renewed, which is falfe.
Thou wilt fay, that it is a reafon far-fetched in behalfof magnetifm ; but
what wilt thou then infer hereupon ? If that which thou confefieth to b^
far remote for thv capacity of understanding, that fhall alfo with thee be ac-
counted to be fetched from far. Truly the book of Genefis avoucheth, that
in the blood ofall living creatures doth their foul exift.
For there are in the blood certain vital powers *, the which, as if they were
foulified or enlivened, do demand revenge from Heaven, yea, and judicial
punhhment from earthly judges on the murderer which powers, feeing they
;
cannot be denied to inhabit naturally in the blood, I fee not why they can
* This fingular property ofthe blood, which Helmont calls VitalPowers, is no lefs wonderful than
true, having been myfelf a witnefs of this experiment while in South Wales. It was tried upon a body
that was malicioufly murdered, through occafion of a quarrel over-night at an alehoufe. The fellow
who was fufpefted of the murderappeared the next day inpublicfeemingly unconcerned. rIhe Coroner’s
Jury fat upon the body within twenty-four hours after this notable murder was committed; when the
fufpefted was fuddenly taken into cuftody,and conveyed away to the famepublic-houfe where the inqui-
fition was taken. After fome debate, one Dr. Jones defired the fufpefted to be brought into the room
which done, he defired the villain to lay his left hand under the wound, whichwas a deep gafh on the
neck, and another on the bread; the villain plainly confeffed his guilt by histrepidation; but as foon as
he lightly laid his finger on the body, the blood immediately ran, about fix or feven drops, to the admira-
tion cfall prefent. If any one doubts the truth of this narrative, however learned and profound he
may think himfelf, let him call perfonally upon me, and I will give himfuch reference, and that truly
fefpe£lable and fair, as fhall convince him of the faff. Irancis Barrett, #:
Part I.] MAGNETISM. i7
rejed: the magnetifm of the blood, as accounting it among the ridiculous
works of Satan.
This I will fay more, to wit, that thofe who walk in their deep, do, by
no other guide than the fpirit of the blood, that is, of the outward man, walk
up and down, perform bufinefs, climb walls, and manage things that are
otherwife impoffible to thofe that are awake. I fay, by a magical virtue,
natural to the more outward man that Saint Ambrofe, although he was
;
for diftant in his body, yet was vilibly prefent at the funeral folemnities of
Saint Martin yet was he fpiritually prefent at thofe folemnities, in the viiible
•,
fpirit of the external man, and no otherwife : for, inafmuch as in that ec-
flafy which is ofthe more internal man, many of the faints have feen many
and abfent things. This is done without time and place, through the fupe-
rior powers of the foul being collected in unity, and by an intellectual vifion,
but not by a vifible prefence otherwife the foul is not feparated from the
;
body, but in good earned:, or for altogether neither is it re-conneCted there-
unto, which re-connexion, notwithftanding, is otherwife natural or familiar to
the fpirit of the more outward man.
It is not fufficient in fo great a paradox, to have once, or by one fingle
reafon, touched at the matter 3 it is tobe further propagated, and w re mud: ex-
plain how a magnetical attraction happens alfo between inanimate things, by
a certain perceivance or feeling not indeed animal or fendtive, but natural.
3
Which thing, that it may be the more ferioudy done, it behoves us firfl to
fliew what Satan can, of his own power, contribute to, and after what man-
ner he can co-operate in the merely wicked and impious addons ofwitches
for, from thence it will appear unto what caufe every effeCt may be attri-
buted.
In the next place, what that fpiritual power may be which tends to a far
remote objeCt or what may be the addon, padion, and Ikirmidiing between
3
natural fpirits, or what may be the fuperiority of man as to other inferior crea-
tures 3 and, by confequence, why indeed our ungue W nt, being compounded of
human mummies, do thoroughly cure horfes alfo. e will explain the matter
in the following chapter.
Book D CHAP,
II.:
i8 MAGNETISM, Book XL
CHAP,
VI,
OF WITCHCRAFT,
LET a witch therefore be granted, who can fitrongly torment an abfent
man by an image ofwax, by imprecation or curbing, by enchantment, or alfo
by a foregoing touch alone, (for here we fpeak nothing of Sorceries, becaufe
they are thole which kill only by poifon, inafmuch as every common apothe-
cary can imitate thofe things) that this a£t is diabolical, no man doubts
however, it is profitable to difcern how much Satan and how much the witch
can contribute hereunto.
The Firjl Suppofition..
Firldofall,thou fhalt take notice, that Satan is the fworn and irreconcileable
enemy ofman, and to be fo accounted by all, unlefs any one had rather have
him to be his friend^ and therefore he mold readily procures whatfoever mif-
chiefhe is able to caufe or with unto us, and that without doubt and negledd.
The Second Suppojition.
And then although he be an enemy to witches themfelves, forafmuch as he
is alfo a mold malicious enemy to all mankind in general ; yet, in regard they
are his bond-flaves, and thofe of his kingdom, he never, unlefs againft his
will, betrays them, or difcovers them to judges, &c.
From the former fuppofition I conclude, that if Satan were able of himfelf to
kill a man who is guilty ofdeadly fin, he would never delay it fbut he doth not
kill him, therefore he cannot.
Notwithftanding, the witch doth oftentimes kill; hence alfo fhe can kill the
fame man, no otherwife than as a privy murderer at the liberty ofhis own will,
flays any one with a fword.
ThereMAGNETISM.
Part I. I?
There is therefore a certain power of the witch in this adtion, which be-
longs not to Satan, and confequently Satan is not the principal efficient and
executor of that murder for otherwife if he were the executioner thereof, he
;
would in nowife Hand in need of the witch as his affidant but he alone had
;
foon taken the greated part ofmen out of the way.
Surely mod; miferable were the condition ofmortals who fhould be fubjedt
to fuch a tyrant, and ftand liable to his commands we have too faithful a God,
;
than that he ffiould fubjedt the work ofhis own hands to the arbitrary dominion
of Satan.
Therefore in this adt, there is a certain power.plainly proper and natural to
the witch which belongs not to Satan.
Moreover, ofwhat nature, extent, and quality that power may be, we mud:
more exadtly lift out. ~
In the fird place, it is manifed that it is no corporeal drength of the male
fex for neither doth there concur any drong touching of the extreme parts
;
mod
ofthe body, and witches are for the part feeble, impotent, and malicious
old women, therefore there mud needs be fome other power, far fuperior to a
corporeal attempt, yet natural to man.
This power therefore was to be feated in that part wherein we mod nearly
referable the image of God ; and although all things do alfo, after fome fort,
reprefent that venerable image, yet becaufe man doth mod elegantly, properly,
and nearly do that, therefore the image ofGod in man doth far outffiine, bear
rule over, and command the images of God in all other creatures for, perad-
;
venture, by this prerogative, all things are put under hisfeet.
Wherefore if God adt, per nutum> or by a beck, namely by his word, fo
ought man to adt fome things only by his beck or will, ifhe ought to be called
his true image : for neither is that new, is that troublefome, is that proper to
God alone : for Satan, the mod vile abjedt of creatures, doth alfo locally move
bodies per nutum or by his beck alone, feeing he hath not extremities or cor-
,
poreal organs, whereby to touch, move, or alfo to fnatch a new body to him-
feIf.20 MAGNETISM.
Book
II.
That privilege therefore ought no lefs to belong to the inward man, as he
is a fpirit, if he ought to reprefent the image of God, and that indeed not an
idle one ; if we call this faculty magical, and thou being badly intruded, art
terrified at this word, thou mayefl:, for me, call it a fpiritual flrength or effica-
cy: for, truly, we are nothing folicitous about names. I always, as imme-
diately as I can, caft an eye upon the thing itfelf.
'I hat magical power, therefore, is in the inward man, whether thou, by this
etymology, or true word, underhanded: the foul or the vital fpirit thereof, it is
now
indifferent to us ; fince there is a certain proportion ofthe internal man to-
wards the external in all things, glowing or growing after its own manner,
which is an appropriated difpolition, and proportioned property.
Wherefore the power or faculty mull: needs be dilperfed throughout the
whole man ; in the foul, indeed, more vigorous, but in the flefh and blood far
more remifs.
CHAP.
VII.
OF THE VITAL SPIRIT, &C.
THE
vital fpirit in the flefh and blood performs the office of the foul that
;
is, it is the fame fpirit in the outward man, which, in the feed, forms the whole
figure, that magnificent ftrudure and perfed delineation ofman, and which
hath known the ends of things to be done, becaufe it contains them ; and the
which, as prefident, accompanies the new framed young, even unto the period
ofits life and the which, although it depart therewith, fome fmacks or finall
quantity, at leaf!, thereofremains in a carcafs flain by violence, being as it were
molt exadly co-fermented with the fame. But, from a dead carcafs that
was extind of its own accord, and from nature failing, as well the implanted
as inflowing fpirit pafled forth at once.
ForMAGNETISM.
Part I. 21
For which reafon, phyficians divide this fpirit into the implanted or mum-
mial, and inflowing or acquired fpirit, which departs to wit, with the for-
;
mer life and this influxing fpirit they afterwards fubdivide into the natural,
vital, and animal fpirit - but, we likewife, do here comprehend them all at once
}
in one fingle word.
The foul therefore being wholly a fpirit could never move or ftir up the
vital fpirit, (being indeed corporeal,) much lefs flefh and bones, unlefs a certain
natural power, yet magical and fpiritual, did defcend from the foul into the
fpirit and body.
After what fort, I pray, could the corporeal fpirit obey the commands ofthe
foul, unlefs there fhould be a command from her for moving of the fpirit, and
afterwards the body
?
But againft this magical motive faculty thou will forthwith objedt, that that
power is limited within her compofed body, and her own natural inn : there-
fore although we call this foul a magiciannefs, yet it fhall be only a wrefting
and abufe of the name ; for truly the true and fuperflitious magic draws not its
foundation from the foul feeing this fame foul is not able to move, alter, or
;
exite any thing out ofits own body.
I anfwer, that this power, and that natural magic of the foul which die
exercifeth not of herfelf, by virtue of the image of God, doth now lie hid as
obfcure in man, and as it were lie afleep fince the fall or corruption of Adam,
and ftands in need offtirring up ; all which particulars we fhall anon in their
proper place prove ; which fame power, how drowfy and as it were drunk fo-
ever, it otherwife remains daily in. us, yet it is fufficient to perform its offices
in its own bodyf
CHAP,22 MAGNETISM..
CHAP.
VIII.
OF THE MAGICAL POWEE, &C.
THEREFORE
the knowledge and power magical, and that faculty in man
which adethonlyper nutum deeps fince the knowledge ofthe apple was eaten.
, ;
and as long as this knowledge (which is of the flefh and blood, grofs and ma-
terial, belonging to the external man and darknefs) flourifhes, the more noble
magical power is lying dormant.
But becaufe in deep this outward or fenfual knowledge is fometimes dor-
mant, hence it is that our dreams are fometimes prophetical, and God him-
felfis therefore nearer unto man in dreams, through that effed, viz. when the
more inward magic of the foul being uninterrupted by the flefh, diffufes itfelf
on every fide into the underftanding ; even as when it finks itfelf into the infe-
rior powers thereof it fafely leads thofe who walk in their deep by moving or
conducting them, whither thofe that were awake could not furmount or
climb.
Therefore we eftablifh this point, viz. that there is inherent in the foul a
certain magical virtue given her by God, naturally proper and belonging to her,
in afmuch as we are his image and engravement and in this refped fhe ads
;
alfo in a peculiar manner, /. e. fpiritually on an objed at a diftance, and that
more powerfully than by any corporeal affifhnce ; for feeing the foul is the
principal part of the body, therefore all adion belonging to her is fpiritual, ma-
gical, and ofthe greateft validity.
Which power man is able, by the Art of the Cabala, to excite in himfelf at
his own pleafure, and thefe, as we have before faid, are called Adepts who
;
are governed by the Spirit of God.
Thus we have endeavoured to lhew that man predominates over all other
creatures that are corporeal, and that by his magical faculty he is able to fubdue
the magical virtues of all other things which predominance of man, or the
j
foul'sMAGNETISM,
Part X. 23
foul’s natural magic, fome have ignorantly attributed folely to •verfes charms
, ,
Jignsy characters &c. by which hierarchy or holy dominion inherent in man,
,
thofe effeCts, whatever they may be, are wrought, which fome (who but too
corporeally philofophize) have attributed to the dominionofSatan.
High and facred is the force of the microcofmical fpirit, which, as is
evident in pregnant women,ftamps upon the young the image and propertiesof
a thing deflrea, as we have before inftanced in a cherry, which, without the
trunk of a tree,brings forth a true cherry, that is flefh and blood, enobled with
the properties and power of the more inward or real cherry, by the conception
of the imagination alone from whence are two neceffary confequenceS.
;
Firflr, that all the fpirits, and as it were the eflences of all things, lie hid in
us, and are'born and brought forth only by theworking, power, and phantafy
ofthe microcofm.
The fecond is, that the foul, in conceiving, generates a certain idea of the
thing conceived the which, as it before lay hid unknown, like fire in a flint,
;
fo by the ftirring up ofthe phantafy there is produced a certain real idea, which
is not a naked quality, but fomething like a fubftance, hanging in fufpence be-
tween a body and a fpirit, that is the foul.
That middle being is fo fpiritual, that it is not plainly exempted from a cor-
poreal condition, fince the actions of the foul are limited on the body, and the
inferior orders of faculties depending upon it, nor yet fo corporeal that it may
be inclofed by dimenfions, the' which we have alfo related to be only proper
to a feminal being. This ideal entity, therefore, when it falls out of the invi-
fible and intellectual world ofthe microcofm, it puts on a body, and then it is
firfl inclofed by the limitation of place and numbers.
The objeCt of the underftanding is in itfelf a naked and pure eflence, not an
accident, by the confent of practical, that is, myftical divines; therefore' this
Proteus or transferable eflence, the underftanding doth, as it were, put on and
clothe itfelf, with this conceived eflence.
But becaufe every body, whether external or internal, hath its making in its
own proper image, the underftanding knows or difcerns not, the will loves and
wills not, the memory recolleCts not, but by images or likenefles the under-
:
ftanding3
24 MAGNETISM. Book II,
Handing therefore puts on this fame image of its objedi and becaufe the foul
3
is the pure fimple form ofthe body, which turns itfelf about to every member,
therefore the adting underfianding cannot have two images at once, but firH
one and then the other. He, who is wholly the life, created all things and
hath faid, nothing is to be expedted as dead out of his hand. Likewife no-
thing can come to our view wherein himfelf is not clearly apparent or prefent
for it is faid, “ the fpirit of the Lord hath filled the whole globe of the
earth and, again, “ that he containeth or comprehended! all things,” there-
fore there is nothing in being, no creature but what pofiefies a certain degree
of divine fire and life, yet lying dormant or unexcited, till ftirred up by the
art, power, and operation ofman.
CHAP.
IX.
OF THE EXCITING OR STIRRING UP THE MAGICAL VIRTUE.
EVERY
magical virtue therefore Hands in need ofan excitement, by which
a certain fpiritual vapour is Hirred up, by reafon whereof the phantafy which
profoundly fleeps is awakened, and there begins an adtion of the corporeal
fpirit, as a medium, which is that of Magnetifm, and is excited by a fore-
going touch.
There is a magical virtue, being as it were abflradted from the body, which
is wrought by the flirring up ofthe power of the foul, from whence there are
made moH potent procreations, and moH famous impreflions, and Hrong effedts,
fo that nature is on every fide a magiciannefs, and adts by her own phan-
tafy 3 and by how much the more fpiritual herphantafy is, fo much the more
powerful it is, therefore the denomination of magic is truly proportionable or
concordant.
NowMAGNETISM-
Part I. 25
Now the higheft fort of magic is that which is ftirred up from an intellectual
conception, and indeed that of the inward man is only to be excited by the Holy
Spirit, and by his gift the Cabala ; but that of the external man is ftirred up by
a ftrong imagination, by a daily and heightened fpeculation, and, in witches, by
thedevil.
But the magical virtue of the exhaled fpiritual vapour, or fubtil fpirits fent
from the body, which before lay inpotentia , or by wayofpoflibility only, is ei-
ther excited by a more ftrong imagination, the magician making ufe of the
blood as a medium, andeftablifhing his kindledentity thereon, or bythe amend-
ing phantafy of the weapon falve, the exciterefs ofthe property lying in the
blood elfe by a foregoing appointment or difpofition ofthe blood unto corrup-
;
tion, viz. whereby the elements are difpofed unto a feparation, and the effences
(which cannot putrify) and the eflential phantafies, which lay hid in the pro-
perties come forth into acftion.
The phantafy therefore, ofanyfubjecft whatfoever has obtained a ftrong appe-
tite to the fpirit ofanother thing, for themovingof fome certain thing in place,
for the attracting, repelling, or expulfton thereof; and there and not elfewhere
we acknowledge magnetifm as the natural magical endowment of that thing
firmly planted in it by God.
There is therefore a certain formal property feparated from fympathetical
and abftrufe qualities becaufe the motive phantafy of thefe qualities do not
;
directly fly unto a local motion, but only to an alterative motion of the object.
Now it is fufficient that (ifa man happens to receive many wounds in his body)
blood be had only from one ofthefe wounds, and from this onethereft are cured
alfo, becaufe that blood keeps a concordant harmony with the fpirit of the
whole, and draws forth from the fame the offenfive quality communicated, not
only to the lips ofthe wound, but to the whole man, for from one wound only
the wholeman is liable to grow feverifti.
Therefore the outchafed blood being received on the weapon is introduced
into-the magnetic unguent.
Forthen the phantafy ofthe blood, being otherwife as yet drowfyand flow to
acftion, being ftirred up by the virtue ofthe magnetic unguent, and there finding
Book IT E the26 MAGNETISM. Book
II.
the balfamic virtue of it, defires the quality induced into it, to be beftowed on
itfelf throughout, and from thence by a lpiritual magnetifm to draw out all the
ftrange tindture of the wound, which, feeing it cannot fitly enough effedt by it-
felf, it implores the aid ofthe mofs> blood fat and mummy which are conjoined
, , ,
together into fuch a balfam s which not but by its own phantafy becomes alfo
medicinal, magnetical, and.is alfo a tradtor ofall the ftrange qualities out ofthe
body, whofe frefh blood, abounding with fpirit, is carried unto it, whether it
fhall be that of a. man or any other living creature. The phantafy therefore is
a returner, or reducible and ecflatical, from part of the blood that is frefh and
newly brought unto the unguent but the magnetic attradlion began in the
;
blood is perfedted by the medicinal virtue ofthe unguent; not that the unguent
draws the infirmity of the wound unto itfelf, but it alters the blood newly
brought unto it, in its fpirit, and makes it medicinal, and ftirs up the power
thereof: from thence it contradts a certain medicinal virtue, which returns
unto its whole body to corredt the fpirit of the blood throughout the whole
man. Now, tomanifeft agreatmyftery , viz. tofhew that in man there is placed
a great efficacy whereby he may be able only by his beck, (as we before men-
tioned) nod or phantafy, to adt out ofhimfelf, and to imprint a virtue, a certain
influence which afterwards perfeveres, or constantly fubftfts by itfelf, and adts
upon objedts at a very great diftance by which only myftery, thofe things
;
whichwe have fpoken (relative to ideal entity conveyed ina fpiritual fewel, and
departing far from home to execute its offices, concerning the magnetifm ofall
things begotten in the imagination ofman, as in that which is proper to every
thing, and alfo concerning the magical fuperiority ofmen over allother bodies,)
will plainly and confpicuoufly appear.
CHAP,;
MAGNETISM,
PartI<^ 27
CHAP.
X.
OF THE MAGICAL VIRTUE OF THE SOUL, AND THE MEDIUMS BY WHICH IT ACTS.
SOMETHING more we will add, before we difmifs the prefent fubjeil,
which is that if a nail, dart, knife, or fword, or any other iron inflrument
be thrufl into the heart ofa horfe, it will bind and withhold the fpirit of a
witch, and conjoin It with the mummial fpirit of the horfe, whereby theymay
be burnt in the fire together, and by that the witch is tormented, as by a fling
or burning, by which means file may be known fo that fhe who is offenfive to
God, and deflruilive to mortal men, may be taken away from fociety according
to the law of God <f thou fhall not fuffer a witch to live j” for if the work be
limited to any outward object, that work the magical foul never attempts with-
outa medium or mean : therefore it makes ufe ofthe nail, or fword, or knife, or
anyother thingas aforefaid.
Now this beingproved, thatman hath a powerofailing,per nutum, orbyhis
nod, or ofmovingany objeit remotely placed ; it has alfo been fufficiently con-
firmedby the fame natural example, that this efficacy was alfo given unto man
by God.
And as every magical faculty lies dormant, and has need of excitement, or
ftirring up ; which is always true, if the objeit whereon it is to ail is not
nearly difpofed, if its internal phantafy doth not wholly confirm to the im-
preffion of the agent, or alfo if the patient be equal'in ftrength, or fuperior to
the agent therein.-
But on the contrary, where the objeit is plainly and nearly difpofed, as
fliel is, for the receiving of magnetifm, then the patient without much ftir-
ring up, the alone phantafy of the more outward man being drawn out to
the work and bound up to any fuitable mean, yields to the magnetifm.
Therefore we repeat, the magician mufl always make ufe of a medium
for then the words or forms of facraments do always operate, becaufe from
E
2 the2 MAGNETISM. Book II.
the work performed. But the reafon why exorcifms, conjurations, charms,
incantations, &c. do fometimes fail of their defired efFedl, is becaufe the un-
excited mind, or fpirit of the exorcift, renders the words dull or inef-
fectual.
Therefore no man can be a happy or fuccefsful magician, but him who
knows how to ftir up the magical virtue of his foul, or can do it practically
without fcience.
And there can be no nearer medium of magnetifm, than human blood
with human blood.
And no fympathetic remedies, magnetical or attractive, but from the
idea or phantafy of the operator impreffing upon it a virtue and efficacy from
the excited power in his own foul.
And now to bring our Magnetic Treatife to a total conclufion, we have tofay,
that whoever, through ignorance or obftinacy, will fay there is no validity or
reafon, or reality in the fcience of magnetifm, proves himfelf unworthy the
facred name of philofopher, becaufe he condemns what he knows nothing at
all about.
For thofe who will give themfelves the leifure to examine the truth of
thofe things which we have taught, will not find their expectation deceived,
therefore will not condemn.
But whoever fhould be fo fuperftitious as to attribute a natural effeCt fo
created by God, and beftowed on the creature, unto the power and craft of
the devil, he filches the honour due to the Omnipotent Creator, and re-
proachfully applies the fame unto Satan the which (under favour) will be
;
found to be exprefs idolatry and blafphemy.
“ There are three” (as fays the Scripture) “ who bear record in heaven;
the Father, the Word, and the Holy Spirit and thefe three are only one.”
;
There are three that bear record on earth
;
the bloody the.fpirit, and the
water and thefe three are only one.
;
We
therefore, who have the like humanity, contain blood and fpirit of a
co-like unity ; and the aCtion of the blood is merely fpiritual. Therefore, in
Genefs,MAGNETISM.
Part I. 29
Genejis, it is not called by the etymology of blood, but is made remarkable by
the name of a redfpirit.
Therefore, let thofe who would attain knowledge in thefe things, and be
perfect in what we have fet before them, conftantly meditate and deflre that
the Firft Caufe and Archetype of all things would gracioufly and mercifully
illuminate their minds without which, they grope but in darknefs and uncer-
;
tainty, and are fubjedt to the delufions of impure fpirits and devus, who are
only to be put to flight by putting on the whole armour of God, in whom we
all live, move breathe and have our being.
, ,
END OF MAGNETISM.f
/_
\; ;
THE CABAL
A;
OR, THE
SECRET MYSTERIES
OF
CEREMONIAL MAGIC
ILLUSTRATED.
' SHEWING
THE ART OF CALCULATING BY DIVINE NAMES
The Rule, Order, and Government of
ANGELS, INTELLIGENCES, AND BLESSED SPIRITS
Holy Seals, Pentacles, Tables of the Cabala, Divine Numbers, Chara&ers and Letters
Of Miracles, Prophecy, Dreams, &c. &c. See.
Embelliihed and beautifiedwith a vaft Number of
RARE FIGURES, PENTACLES, CHARACTERS, &c. & c. &c.
Ufedinthe
CABALISTIC ART,
Br FRANCIS BARRET
3TVDENT OF CHEMISTRY, NATURAL AND OCCULT PHILOSOPHY, THE CABALA, &CC,:
CABALISTICAL MAGIC.
*
/
CHAP.
I.
OF THE CABALA^ &C.
'OT7E fhall now turn our pen to the explaining of the high and myfterious
fecrets of the Cabala, by which only we can know the truth and
;
likewife how to prepare our mind and fpirit for the contemplation of the
greateft and beft part of magic, which we call intelledual and divine, be-
caufe it chiefly takes Goa and the good fpirits for its object ; and as the caba-
liftic art opens many and the chiefefl myfleries and fecrets of ceremonial
magic.
But in refped of explaining or publifhing thofe. few fecrets in the Cabala,
which are amongft a few wife men, and communicated by word of mouth
only, I hope the ftudent will pardon me if I pafs over thefe in fllence, becaufe
we are not permitted io divulge fome certain things but this we fhall do
: ;
we will open all thofe fecrets which are neceflary to be known ; and by the
clofe reading of which, you fhall find out, of your own head, to be both
profitable and delightful.
Therefore, all we folicit is, that thofe who perceive thofe fecrets fhould
keep them together as fecrets, andnot expofe or babble them to the unworthy
;
but reveal them only to faithful, difcreet, and chofen friends. And we would
caution you in this beginning, that everymagical experiment flies from the
public, feeking to be hid, is ftrengthened and confirmed by filence, but
is deftroyed by publication never does any complete effed follow after
;
likewife all the virtue of thy works will fuffer detriment when poured into
weak, prating, and incredulous minds therefore, if thou would be a magi-
;
F
cian,34 THE CABALA ; OR, Book II.
cian, and gain fruit from this art, to be fecret, and to manifest to none,
either thy work, or place, or time , nor thy defire or will, except it be to a
rnafter, or partner, or companion, who fhould likewife be faithful, difcreet,
filent, and dignified by nature and education feeing that even the prating of
;
a companion, his unbelief, doubting, queftioning, and, laffcly, unworthinefs,
hinders and difturbs the.effeCt in every operation.
CHAP.
II.
WHAT DIGNITY AND PREPARATION IS ESSENTIALLY NECESSARY TO HIM WHO WOULD
BECOME A TRUE MAGICIAN.
IT is fit that we who endeavour to attain fo great a height fhould firft
fludy two things : viz. Firft, how we fhould leave vain and carnal affections,
frail fenfe, and material pafiions Secondly, by what ways and means we may
;
afcend to an intellect pure, and joined with the powers of the celeftials,
without which we fhall never happily afcend to the fcrutiny of fecret things,
and to the power of working wonderful effeCts, &c. Now, if thou art a
man perfeCt in thy underftanding, and conftantly meditating upon what we
have in this book written, and without doubting, believeth, thou fhalt be
able, by praying, confecrating, deprecating, invocating, &c. to attract fpiri-
tual and celeftial gifts, and to imprint them on whatever things thou fhalt
pleafe ; and by it to vivify every magical work.
CHAP.
(,
Part I ), CEREMONIAL MAGIC. 35
" ' i - ; ' !\ C * HAP. ; j'
III.
THAT THE KNOWLEDGE OF THE TRUE GOD IS NECESSARY FOR A MACICIAN.
SEEING that the being and operation of all things depend on the Moft
High God, Creator of all things, and from thence on the other divine
powers, to whom alfo is granted a power offafhioning and creating, not prin-
cipally indeed, but inftrumentally, by virtue of the Firft Great Creator, (for
the beginning of every thing is the firft caufe ; but what is produced by the
fecond caufe is much more produced by the firft, which is the producer of the
fecond caufe, which therefore we call fecondaries.) It is neceflary, therefore,
that every magician fhould know that very God, which is the firft caufe and
creator of all things, and likewife the other divine powers, (which we call
the fecond caufes,) and not to be ignorant of them, and likewife what holy
rites, ceremonies, &c. are conformable to them; but, above all, we are to
worfhip in fpirit and truth, and place our firm dependance upon that one only
God who is the author and promoter of all good things, the Father of all,
moft bountiful and wife the facred light of juftice, and the abfolute and foie
;
perfection of all nature, and the contriver and wifdom thereof.
CHAP.
IV.
OF DIVINE EMANATIONS, AND TEN SEPHIROTHS, AND TEN MOST SACRED NAME! OF GOD
WHICH RULE THEM, AND THE INTERPRETATION OF THEM.
GOD
himfelf, although he is trinity in perfons, yet he is but one only
fimple eflence yet we doubt not but that there are in him many divine
;
powers, which emanate or flow from him.
F 2 The3 6 THE CABALA $ OR, Book II.
The mod
Cabalifts learned in divine things have received the ten principal
names of God, as certain divine powers, or, as it were, members of God
;
which, by ten numerations, which we call Sephiroth, as it were vediments,
indruments, or exemplars ofthe Archetype, have an influence upon all created
things, from the highed to the lowed: ; yet by a certain order : for firft and
immediately they have influence upon the nine orders of angels and quire of
blefled fouls, and by them into the celedial fpheres, planets and men by the
;
which Sephiroth every thing receiveth power and virtue.
The fird of thefe is the name Eheia, the name of the divine eflence ; his
numeration is called Cether, which is interpreted a crown or diadem, and
fignifi.es the mod Ample eflence of the divinity; and it is called that
which the eye feeth not; and is attributed to God the Father, and hath
its influence by the order of feraphims, or Hajoth Hakados, that is, crea-
tures of holinefs ; and then by the primum mobile t it bedows the gift of
being upon all things, and filleth the whole univerfe, both through the
circumference and center ; whofe particular intelligence is called Merat-
tron, that is, the prince of faces, whofe duty it is to bring others to the face
of the Prince and by him the Lord fpake to Mofes.
;
The fecond name is Jod, or Tetragrammaton joined with Jod ; his numera-
tion is Hochma, that is, wifdom, and fignifies the divinity full of ideas, and
the Fird Begotten and is attributed to the Son, and has its influence by the
;
order of cherubins, or that the Hebrews call Orphanim, i. e. forms or
wheels and from thence into the darry heavens, where he frames fo many
;
figures as he hath ideas in himfelf, and didinguiflies the very chaos of the
creatures, by a particular intelligence called Raziel, who was the ruler ofAdam.
The third name is called Tetragrammaton Elohim ; his numeration is
named Prina, viz. providence and underdanding and fignifies remifl'nefs,
;
quietnefs, the jubilee, penetential converfion, a great trumpet, redemption
of the world, and the life of the world to come : it is attributed to the Holy
Spirit, and hath his influence by the order of thrones, or which the Hebrews
call Abalim , that is, great angels, mighty and drong ; and from thence, by
the fphere of Saturn adminiders form to the unfettled matter, whofe parti-
,
cular,
Part I. CEREMONIAL MAGIC. 37
cular intelligence is Zaphkiel, the ruler of Noah, and another intelligence
named Jophiel, the ruler of Sem and thefe are the three fupreme and high-
;
eft numerations, as it were, feats of the divine perfons, by whofe command
all things are made but are executed by the other feven, which are there-
;
fore called numerations framing.
The fourth name is El, whofe numeration is Hefed, which fignifies cle-
mency or goodnefs likewife grace, mercy, piety, mgnificence, the fcepter,
;
and right-hand and hath its influx by the order of dominations, which the
;
Hebrews call Hafmalim and fo through the fphere of Jupiter fafhions the
;
images 6f bodies, bellowing clemency and pacifying juflice on all: his parti-
cular intelligence is Zadkiel, the ruler of Abraham.
The fifth name is Elohim Gibor, that is, the mighty God, punifhing the
fins of the wicked and his numeration is called Gebufach, which is to fay,
;
power,, gravity, fortitude, fecurity, judgment, punifhing by daughter and
war ; and it is applied to the tribunal of God, the girdle, the fword, the
left hand of God ; it is- alfo called Pachad, which is fear; and hath his
influence through the order of powers, which the Hebrews call Seraphim,
and from thence through the fphere of Mars, to whom belongs fortitude,
war, and affliction. It draweth forth the elements and his particular in-
;
telligence is Camael, the ruler of Samfon.
The fixth name is Eloha, or a name of four lettersjoined with Vaudahat ;
his numeration is Tiphereth, that is, apparel, beauty, glory, pleafure, and
fignifies the tree of life, and hath his influence through the order of virtues,
which the Hebrews call Malachim that is, angels, into the fphere ofthe fun,
,
giving brightnefs and life to it, and from thence producing metals; his
particular intelligence is Raphael, who was the ruler of Ifaac, and Toby the
younger, and-the angel Peliel, the Ruler of Jacob.
The feventh name is Tetragrammaton Sabaoth, or Adonai Sabaoth , that is,
the God of Hofls ; and his numeration is Nezah, that is, truimph and vi&ory :
the right column is applied to it, and it fignifies the juflice and eternity ofa re-
venging God ; it hath its influence through the orders ofprincipalities, whom
the Hebrews call E/ohim, i. e. Gods, into the fphere of Venus gives zeal and
love38 THE CABALA OR, Book II.
3
\
love of righteoufnefs, and produces vegetables his intelligence is Hamel and
3 ,
the angel CervieJ the ruler ofDavid.
,
The eighth is called alfo Elohim Sabaoth, which is likewife the God of
Holts, not of war and jultice, but of piety and agreement, for this name
fignifies both, and precedeth his army the numeration of this is called Hod
3 ,
which is, praife, confeflion, honour and fame 3 the left column is attributed to
it 3 it hath his influence through the order of the archangels, which the He-
brews call Ben Elohim, that is, the fons of God, into the fphere of Mercury,
and gives elegancy, and confonancy offpeech, and produces living creatures
3
his intelligence is Michael, who was the ruler ofSolomon.
The ninth name is calledSadai, that is. Omnipotent, fatisfying all, andElhai,
which is the Living God 3 his numeration is Jefod, that is, foundation, and
fignifies a good underftanding, a covenant, redemption and reft and hath his
3
influence through the order ofangels, whom the Hebrews name Cherubim,
into the fphere of the moon caufing the increafe and decreafe ofall things, and
provideth for the genii and keepers of men, and diftributeth them his intel-
3
ligence is Gabriel , who was the keeper of fofeph , Jcojhua y and Daniel.
The tenth name is Adonai Melech, that is, lord and king 3 his numeration is
Malehuth, that is, kingdom and empire, and fignifies a church, the temple
of God, and a gate and hath his influence through the order of Animajlic
3 ,
viz. of bleffedfouls which, by the Hebrews, is called Ifiim, that is, nobles,
,
lords, and princes they are inferior to the hierarchies and have their influ-
3 ,
ences on the fons of men, and give knowledge and the wonderful under-
ftanding of things, alfo induftry and prophecy and the foul of the Meftiah
3
is prefident amongft them, or the intelligence Merattron, which is called the
firft creature, or the foul of the world, who was the ruler of Mofes.
CHAP.Part I. CEREMONIAL MAGIC. 39
CHAP
V.
OF THE POWER AND VIRTUE OF THE DIVINE NAMES.
GOD
himfelf, though he be one only efience, yet hath divers names,
which expound not his divers efiences or deities but certain properties flow-
;
ing from him by which names he pours down upon us, and all his creatures,
;
many benefits ten of thofe names we have above defcribed. The Cabalifts,
;
from a certain text of Exodus, derive feventy-two names, both of the angels
and of God, which they call the name of feventy-two lettersand Schemham-
phores, that is, the expository. From thefe therefore, befides thofe which we
have reckoned up before, is the name of the divine efience, Eheia , rrnK,
which Plato tranflates <ui'» from hence they call God tow , others ouv, that is,
the Being. Hu, xin, is another name revealed to Efay, fignifying the abyfs
of the godhead, which the Greeks tranflate tuvtw, the Latins, himfelf the
fame. Efch, itw, is another name received from Mofes, which foundeth fire,
and is the name of God }.Na, nj, is to be invocated in perturbations and
troubles. There is alfo the name Ja, rv, and the name Elion, jvty, and the
name Macom, tapia, the name Caphu nos, the name Innon pv, and the name
, ,
Emeth, ton, which is interpreted truth, and is the feal of God ; and there
are two other names, Zur, mv, and Aben pN, both of thefe fignify a folid
,
work, and one of them exprefleth the Father with the Son and many
;
names we have placed in the fcale of numbers and many names of God
;
and the angels, are extracted out of the Holy Scriptures by our Ca-
bala, and the Notarian and Gimetrian arts, where many words retrained by
certain of their letters, make up one name or one name difperfed by each of
;
its letters, fignifies or renders more. Sometimes they are gathered from the
heads of words, as the the name Agla, n*?jn, from this verfe of the Holy
Scripture, viz. oiND^yV naunnx, that is, the Mighty God for ever. In like
manner the name Iaia, n>n’, from this verfe, viz. -irmniiT wn^Nmrr, that is*
God our God is one God in like manner the name Java, wn', from
this, ;
40 THE CABALA OR, Book It
i
this verfe, “iftcrri *n', that is, let there be light and there was light : in like
manner the name Ararita, nj-v-ijok, from this verfe, -inN'itmiran innnN
“ihk, that is, one principal of his unity, one beginning of his individuality,
his viciffitude is one thing ; and this name Hacaba ., Nipn, is extracted from
this verfe, NimMtpnprv., the holy and blelfed One in like manner this name
;
Jefuy w, is found in the heads of thefe two verfes, viz, that is,
until the Meffiah fhall come and the other verfe, miDt» p*, that is, his
;
name abides till the end. Thus alfo is the name Amen, jon, extracted from
this verfe, pro ffi’D’j-iN, that is, the Lord is the faithful King . Sometimes thefe
names are extracted from the ends of words, as the fame Amen from this
verfe, D'yiznm that is, the wicked not fo j but the letters are tranfpofed :
fo, by the final letters of this verfe, nopty that is, to me what ? or what
is his name ? is found the name Tetragrammaton : in all thefe a letter is put for
a word, and a letter extracted from a word, either from the beginning, end,
or where you pleafe and fometimes thefe names are extracted from all the
;
letters, one by one, even as thofe feven-two names of God are extracted from
thofe three verfes of Exodus, beginning from thefe three words, d> wt tyDr*,
the firft and the laft verfes being written from the right to the left but the
j
middle contrariwife, from the left to the fight, as we fhall fhew hereafter
and fo fometimes a word is extracted from a word, or a name from a name,
by the tranfpofition of letters, as Mefia rvtyo, from Ifmah now*, and Michael
, ,
from Malachi onVd but fometimes by changing the alphabet, which the
, ;
Cabalifts call Ziruph, *p*v2f ; fo from the name Tetragrammaton, mrr, are
drawn forth yssn, Maz-Paz, inn, Kuzu. Sometimes, by reafon of the equa-
lity of the numbers, names are changed, as Merattron p-iDton, pro Sadai, nw,
for both of them make three hundred and fourteen ; fo Jiai, »«*’, and El,
are equal in number, for both make thirty-one and thefe are the hidden
;
fecrets, concerning which it is moft difficult to judge, or to deliver a perfect
fcience neither can they be underftood or taught in any other language but
;
the Hebrew. Therefore, thefe facred words have not their power in magical
operations from themfelves, as they are words, but from the occult divine
powers working by them in the mind of thofe who by faith adhere to them.
We, .
ThisSigiL against alldangers
ScmischiefsofevilSpiritsScMen
•-ThisSeal vs used asa/preservative
Theforepart against aZlcasieahties, dangers Sc
mischief,icing ivarreengraven onpure
(Sold it secures thebearerfroraadevils.
Thehinderpm
This is to heengrevven on-
the other side
l\Barrett-Jh.v,i'Dd If,tsd/pithi/'cv.lp.
Pub. by IjackmorloTi Allen, lc CoPart I. CEREMONIAL MAGIC, 41
We
will here deliver unto thee a facred feal, efficacious againft any difeafe
of man, or any griefs whatfoever, in whofe fore-fide are the four-fquared
names of God, fo fubordinate to one another in a fquare, that, from the
higheft to the lowed:, thofe molt holy names or feals of the godhead do arife,
whofe intention is infcribed in the circumference ; but on the backlide is in-
fcribed the /even-lettered name Araritha , and his interpretation is written
about, viz. the verfe from which it is extracted, even as you may fee in the
annexed plate, where A reprefents the former part, B the hinder ; but all
this mu ft be done in moft pure gold, or virgin parchment, pure, clean, and
unfpotted alfo with ink made of the frnoke of confecrated wax-lights, or
;
incenfe and holy water. The operator muft be purified and cleanfed, and
have an infallible hope, a conftant faith, and have his mind lifted up to the
Moft High God, ifhe would furely obtain this divine power.
Now, againft the depredations of evil fpirits and men, and what dangers
foever, either of journies, waters, enemies, arms, &c. in the fame manner
as is above faid, thefe characters on the one fide vnm, and thefe on the
other may, which are the beginnings and ends of the five firft verfes of
Genejis , and reprefentation of the creation of the world ; and, by this liga-
ture, they fay that a man ffiall be free from all mifchiefs, if that he firmly
believes in God, the Creator ofall things.
Now thefe being done on a fmall plate of gold, as before defcribed,
(will be found to have the effeCt above mentioned) ; the figure ofwhich you
may likewife fee in the annexed plate, fig. C and D, where C fhows the for-
mer part, and B the hinder.
Now let no one diftruft or wonder, that facred words and divine names
applied outwardly, can effeCt wonderful things, feeing, by them, the Al-
mighty created the heavens and the earth j for there is no name of God
amongft us (according to Mofes the Egyptian) which is not taken from his
works, befides the name Tetragrammaton, which is holy, fignifying the
fubftance of the Creator in a pure fignification.
Book G CHAP.
II.,
42 THE CABALA OR, Book
J II.
/
CHAP.
VI,
— i ' 1 ' - V" “ N
OF INTELLIGENCES AND SPIRITS, AND OF THE THREE'FOLD KIND OF THEM, AND' OF THEIR'
DIFFERENT NAMES, AND OF INFERNAL AND SUBTERRANEAL SPIRITS.
NOW,
confequently, we mult difcourfe of intelligences, fpirits, and an-
gels. An intelligence is an intelligible fubftance, free from all grofs and
putrifying mafs of a body, immortal, infenfible, aflifting all, having influ-
ence over all ; and the nature of all intelligences, fpirits, and angels is the
fame. But I call angels here, not thofe whom we ufually call devils, but
fpirits fo called from the propriety of the word, as it were, knowing, under-
ftanding, and wife. But of thefe, according to the tradition of magicians,
there are three kinds the firft of which we call fuper-celeftial, and minds
;
altogether feparated from a body, and, as it were, intellectual lpheres wor-
fhipping one only God, as it were, their molt firm and liable unity or centre.
Wherefore they even call them Gods, by reafon ofa certain participation ofthe
Divinity, for they are always full of God. Thefe are only about God, and
rule not the bodies of the world, neither are they fitted for the government of
inferior things, but infufe the light received from God unto the inferior
orders, and diftribute every one’s duty to all of them. The celeftial intel-
ligences do next follow thefe in the fecond order, which they call worldy an-
gels, viz. being appointed, befides the divine worfhip for the fpheres of the
world, and for the government of every heaven and ftar whence they are
;
divided into fo many orders as there are heavens in the world, and as there
are ftars in the heavens. And they called thefe Saturnine, who rule the heaven
of Saturn and Saturn himfelf others Jovial, who rule the heaven of
, ;
Jupiter and Jupiter himfelf and in like manner they name different an-
;
gels, as well for the name as the virtue of the other liars and becaufe the
;
old aftrologers maintained fifty-five motions, therefore they invented fo many
intelligences or angels. They placed alfo in the Harry heaven angels who
might,
Part I. CEREMONIAL MAGICr 43
might rule the figns, triplicities, decans, quinaries, degrees and liars for al-
;
though the fchool ofPeripatetics affign one only intelligence to each of the
orbs of the liars, yet feeing every liar and fmall part of the heaven hath its
proper and different power and influence, it is neceflary alfo that it have its
ruling intelligence which may confer power and operate therefore they have
;
ellablilhed twelve princes of the angels, who rule the twelve figns of the
zodiac, andthirty-fix who may rule fo many decans, and feventy-two who may
rule fo many quinaries ofheaven, and the tongues ofmen and nations, and four
who may rule the triplicities and elements, and feven governors of the whole
world, according to the feven planets and they have given to all of them names
;
andfeals which they call characters, and uled them in theirinvocations, incan-
,
tations and carvings, defcribing them in the inllruments of their operations,
images plates glajjes, rings papers wax-lights, and fuch like. And if at any
, , , ,
time they operated for the fun, they invocated by the name of the fun and
by the names of folar angels, and foofthe reft. Thirdly, they ellablilhed an-
gels as minifters for the difpofing ofthofe thingswhich are below,which Origen
called certain invifible powers, to which thofe things which are on earth are
committed to be difpofed of. For fometimes, they being vifible to none do
diredt our journies and all our bufinefs, are often prefent at battles, and, by
fecret helps, do give the defired fuccefs to their friends for, at their plea-
;
fure, they can procure profperity, and inflidt adverfity. In like manner they
diltribute thefe into more orders, fo as fome are fiery, fome watery, fome aerial,
fome terrellrial which four fpecies of angels are computed according to the
;
four powers of the celellial fouls, viz. the mind, reafon, imagination, and
vivifying and moving nature hence the fiery follow the mind of the ce-
;
lellial fouls, whence they concur to the contemplation of more fublime
things but the aerial follow reafon, and favour the rational faculty, and, af-
;
ter a certain manner, feparate it from the fenfitive and vegetative ; therefore
it ferves for an adtive life, as the fiery the contemplative but the watery
follow the imagination, fervefora voluptuous life the earthly following nature,
;
favours vegetable nature. Moreover, they diftinguifh alfo this kind ofangels
intofaturnine andjovial, according to the names of the liars and the hea
G
2 vens;;
44 THE CABALA,* OR, Book II.
vens farther, fome are oriental, fome occidental, fome meridional, fome
;
feptentrional. Moreover, there is no part of the world deflitute of the pro-
per abidance of thefe angels, not becaufe they are alone, but becaufe they
reign there efpecially for they are every where, although fome efpe-
j
cially operate, and have their influence in this place, fome elfewhere
neither truly are thefe things to be underflood as though they were fub-
jecft to the influence of the ftars, but as they have correfpondence with
the heaven above the world, from whence efpecially all things are diredted,
and to which all things ought to be conformable whence, as thefe angels
;
are appointed for diverfe ftars, fo alfo for diverfe places and times not that
;
they are limited to any place or time, neither by the bodies which they are-
appointed to govern, but becaufe the Divine Wifdom hath fo decreed there-
;
fore they favour more, and patronize thofe bodies, places, times, ftars fo
:
they have called fome diurnal, fome nodturnal, others meridional. In like
manner fome are called woodmen, fome mountaineers, fome fleldmen, fome
domeftics hence the gods of the woods, country gods, fatyrs, familiars,,
:
fairies of the fountains, fairies of the woods, nymphs of the fea, the Naiades,
Nereides, Dryades, Pierides, Hamadryades, Patumides, Hinnides Agapte,
Pales, Parcades, Dodon®, Fanila?, Levernae, Parcae, Mufes, Aonides, Cafta-
lides, Heliconides, Pegaiides, Meonides, Phebiades, Camenae, the graces,
the genii, hobgobblins, and fuch like whence the vulgar call them fape-
;
riors, fome the demi-gods and godefles : fome of thefe are fo familiar and ac-
quainted with men, that they are even affedted with human perturbations
by whofe inftrudlions Plato thinks that men do oftentimes wonderful things,
even as by the inflrudtion of men fome beafls which are moft nigh to us,
apes, dogs, elephants, do often ftrange things above their fpecies and they
;
who have written the chronicles of the Danes and Norwegians, do teftify
that fpirits of feveral kinds in thofe regions are fubjedt to men’s commands
moreover, fome of thefe appear corporeal and mortal, whofe bodies are be-
gotten and die yet to be long-lived is the opinion of the Egyptians and Pla-
;
tonifts, and efpecially approved by Proclus, Plutarch alfo, and Demetrius the
philofopher, and iEmilianus the rhetorician, affirm the fame therefore of
;
thefeVejsels ofWrath
ReadsofEvil
Jh°2-
TheIncubus
/tncrravcjivj?orl
F
Utnorhcc/./r Barrett.Part I'. CEREMONIAL MAGIC. 45
thefe fpirits of the third kind, as the opinion o^he Platonift is, they report
that there are fo many legions as there are ftars in the heaven, and fo many
fpirits in every legion as in heaven itfelf ftars : but there are, (as Athanaftus
delivers,) who think, that the true number of the good fpirits is according to
the number of men, ninety-nine parts, according to the parable of the hun-
dred fheep others think only nine parts, according to the parable of the ten
;
goats others fuppofe the number of the angels equal-with men, becaufe it
;
is written, he that hath appointed the bounds of the people according to the
number ofthe angels ofGod and concerning their number many have written
;
many things but the latter theologians, followingthe maftersofthe fentences,
;
Aujlm and Gregory ealily refolve themfelves, faying, that the number of the
,
good angels tranfcendeth human capacity to the which, on the contrary, innu-
;
merable unclean fpirits do correfpond, there being fo many in the inferior world
as pure fpirits in the fuperior and fome divines affirm that they have receiv-
;
ed this by revelation. Under thefe they place a kind of fpirits fubterraneous
or obfcure, which the Platonifts call angels that failed, revengers of wicked-
nefs and ungodlinefs, accordingto the decree of thedivine juftice; and they call
them evil angels and wicked fpirits, becaufe they often annoy and hurt, even of
their ownaccord. Of thefe alfo they reckon more legions and, in like manner,
;
diftinguifhing them according to the names of the ftars and elements, and parts
of the world, they place over them kings, princes, and rulers and the names
;
of them: of thefe, four moft mifchievous kings rule over the other, accord-
ing to the four parts of the world. Under thefe many more princes of
legions govern, and many private officers hence the Gorgones, Statenotfe
; ,
the Furies; hence Ti/ipbone, Aleffio, Megcera Cerberus. They of this kind
,
of fpirits. Porphyry fays, inhabit a place nigh the earth, yea within the earth
itfelf there is no mifchief which they dare not commit they have altogether
; ;
a violent and hurtful nature, therefore they plot, and endeavour violent and
fudden mifchiefs and when they make incurfions, fometimes they lie hid,
;
and fometimes offer open violence, and are very much delighted in all fuch
things done wickedly and mifchievoufly.
C HAP.I
46 THE CABALA OR, Book XI.
j
CHAP.
VII.
or THE ORDER OF EVIL SPIRLTS, AND THEIR FALL, AND DIFFERENT NATURES-.
THERE
are fome of the fchool of theologians, who diftribute the evil
fpirits into nine degrees, as contrary to the nine orders of angels. Therefore,
the firftof thefe, which are called falfe gods, who, ufurping the name of God,
would be worlhipped for gods, and require facrifices and adorations; as that
devil who faid to Chrift, “ If thou wilt fall down and worship me, I will give
thee all thefe things,” fhewing him all the kingdoms of the world and the
;
prince of thefe is he who faid, I will afcend above the height of the clouds,
and will be like to the Molt High, who is called Beelzebub, that is, an old god.
In the fecond place, follows the fpirits of lies, of which fort was he who went
forth, and was a lying fpirit in the mouth of the prophet of Ahab and the
;
prince of thefe is the ferpent Pytho, from whence Apollo is called Pythius, and
that woman a Pythonefs, or witch, in Samuel, and the other in the gofpel,
who had Pytho in her belly. Therefore, thefe kind ofdevilsjoin themfelvesto
the oracles, and delude men by divinations and predictions, fo that they may be
deceived. In the third order, are the velfels ofiniquity, which are called velfels
of wrath thefe are the inventors ofevil things, and all wicked arts; as in Plato,
:
that devil Theutus, who taught cards and dice for all wickednefs, malice, and
;
deformity, proceeds from thefe, of which in Genejis in the benedictions of
,
Simeon and Levi, Jacob faid, “ velfels of iniquity are in theirhabitations, into
their counfel let not my foul come;” which the Pfahmft calls velfels ofdeath,
Ifaiah velfels of fury and ‘Jq&emiah, velfels of wrath Ezekiel, velfels of de-
, ; ;
troying and flaying; and their prince is Belial, which flgnifies, without a yoke,
and difobedient, a prevaricator, and an apoftate ofwhom Paul to the Corinthi-
;
“
ans fays, what agreement has Chrilt with Belial ?” Fourthly, follow the re-
vengers of evil, and their prince is Afmodeus, viz. caufing judgment. After
thefe, in the fifth place, come the deluders, who imitate miracles, and ferve
conjurersUJlklS.
TkeSfiint
.AnticArut
"HarrellDel Pub
.
by Lackin/rfon &-Allen,. R.Griffith J:uht.;
Part I. CEREMONIAL MAGIC. 47
conjurers and witches, and feduce the people by their miracles, as the ferpent
feduced Eve, and their prince is Satan, of whom it is written in the Revelation,
** that he feduces the whole world, doing great figns, andcaufing fire to defcend
from heaven in the fight of men feducing the inhabitants of the earth by
thefe figns, which are given him to do.” Sixthly, the aerial powers offer
themfelves and join themfelves to thunder and lightning, corrupting the air,
caufing peftilencies, and other evils in the number of which are the four
;
.angels of whom the the Revelations fpeak, to whom it is given to hurt the
earth and the fea, holding the four winds from the four corners of the earth
;
and their prince is called Meririm : he is the meridian devil, a boiling fpirit,
a devil raging in the fouth, whom Pauly to the Epbejians, calls “ the prince of
the power of the air, and the fpirit which works in the children of difobe-
dience.” The feventh manfion the- furies poffefs, who are powers of evil,
difcords, war,, and devaluation j whofe name in the Revelation is called in
Greek, Apollyon in the Hebrew, Abaddon, that is, destroying and wafting.
In the eighth place are the accufers or inquifitors^ whofe prince is Aftaroth,
that is, a fearcher out ; in the Greek language he is called Diabolus, that is,
an accuSer or calumniator ; whicli in the Revelation is called the “ accufer of
the brethren, accufing them night and day before the face of God.” More-
over, the tempters and enfnarers have the laft place ; one of which is
prefent with every man, which we call the evil genius, and their prince is
Mammon, which is interpreted covetoufnefs. But we of the Cabala unani-
moufly maintain that evil fpirits do wander up and down this inferior world,
enraged againft, all whom we call devils ; of whom Aujlin, in his firSt
book of the Incarnation of the Word, to Januarius,fays, concerning the devils
ancj his angels contrary to virtues, the ecclefiaftical preachers have taught that
there are fuch things, but what they are, and who they are, he has not clear
enough expounded yet there is this opinion among them, that this devil
:
was an angel, and being made an apoftate, perfuaded many of the angels to
fall with him, who to this day are called his angels. Greece, notwithstanding,
thinks not that thefe are damned,^ior that they are all purpofely evil but
;
that from the creation of the world the difpenfation of things is ordained by
this-, ;
48 THE CABALA OR-, Book If.
;
this means, that the tormenting of finful fouls is made over to them. The
other theologians fay, that no devil was created evil, but that they were
driven and cad; out of heaven from the orders of good angels, for their pride-;
whofe fall not only our and the Hebrew theologians but alfo the Ajfyrians
,
Arabians Egyptians, and Greeks, do confirm by their tenets. Pherycies the
, ,
AJJ'yrian, , deferibes the fall of the devils ; and Ophis , that is, the develifh
ferpent, was the head of that rebelling army Trifmegiftus fings the fame
;
fall, in his Pimander; .and Homer, under the name of Ararus, in his verfes
and Plutarch, in his Difcourfe on Ufury, fignifies that Empedocles knew
that the fall of the devils was in this manner the devils themfelves often
;
confefs their fall. They being caft out into this valley of mifery, fome that
are near to 11s wander up and down in this obfeure air; others inhabit lakes,
rivers, and feas ; others the earth, and terrify earthly things, and invade thofe
who dig wells and metals, caufe the gaping of the earth, to ftrike together
the foundations of the mountains, and vex not only men but alfo other crea-
tures fome being content with laughter and delufion only, do contrive rather
;
to weary men than to hurt them fome heightening themfelves to the length
;
ofa giant’s body, and again fhrinking themfelves down to the fmallnefs of pig-
mies, and changing themfelves into different forms, to difturb men with vain
fear others ftudy lies and blafphemies, as we read of one in third book of
;
Kings, faying, “ I will go forth and be a lying fpirit in the mouth of all the
prophets of Ahab.” But the worfl fort of devils are thofe who lie in wait,
and overthrow paffengers in their journies, and rejoice in wars and effufion of
blood, and afflidt men with moft cruel ftripes : we read of fuch in Matthew ,
“ for fear of whom no man dared pafs that way.” Moreover, the Scripture
reckons up nodiurnal, diurnal, and meridional devils and deferibes other
;
fpirits of wickenefs by different names, as we read in Ifaiah of fatyrs, fcreech-
owls, firens, ftorks, * owls ; and in the Pfalms , of afps, bafilifks, lions,
dragons and in the Gofpel, we read of fcorpions, and Mammon, and the
;
prince of this world, and rulers of darknefs, of all whom Beelzebub is the
prince, whom the Scripture calls the prince of wickednefs.
CHAP.Powers oj Evzl
ads
ofEvilDamons
DlStaTOlk-
R Griffith Sculp,-
F.DarntlDel.%-jr
%Part L CEREMONIAL MAGIC. 49
CHAP.
VIII.
W
THE ANNOYANCE OF EVIL SPIRITS, AND THE PRESERVATION WE HAVE FROM
GOOD SPIRITS.
IT is the opinion of divines, that all evil fpirits are of that nature, that
they hate God as well as man therefore Divine Providence has fet over us
;
more pure fpirits, with whom he hath entrufted us, as with fhepherds and
governors, that they fhould daily help us, and drive away evil fpirits from us,
and curb and reftrain them, that they fhould not hurt us, as they would
otherwife as is read in Tobias, that Raphael did apprehend the demon called
;
AJmodeus and bound him in the wildernefs of the Upper Egypt. Of
,
thefe, Hefiod fays, there are 30,000 of Jupiter’s immortal fpirits living on the
earth, who are thekeepers ofmortal men, who,jthat they might obfervejuftice
and merciful deeds, having clothed themfelves with ajr, go to and fro every
where on the earth. For there is no potentate could be fafe, nor any woman
continue uncorrupted, no man in this vale of ignorance could come to the
end appointed to him by God, if good fpirits did not fecure us, or if evil
fpirits fhould be permitted to fatisfy the wills of men; as therefore among
the good there is a proper keeper or protestor deputed to every one, cor-
roborating the fpirit of the man to good ; fo of evil fpirits, there is fent forth
an enemy ruling over the flefh and defire thereof ; and the good fpirit fights
for us as a preferver againft the enemy and flefh, now man, between thefe
contenders is in the middle, and left in the hand of his own counfel to
whom he will give vidtory we cannot therefore accufe angels, or deny free-
:
will, if they do not bring the nations entrufted to them to the knowledge of
the true God and true piety, but fuffer.them to fall into errors and perverfe
worfhip ; it is to be imputed to themfelves, who have, of their own
accord, declined from the right path, adhering to the fpir-its of error, giv-
ing vidtory to the devil : for it is in the hand of man to adhere to whom he
H
Book
II. pleafes.50 THE CABALA 5 OR, Book II.
pleafes, and overcome whom he will by whom if once the devil be over-
;
come, he is made his fervant, and being overcome, cannot fight any more
with another, as a wafp that has loft his fting. To which opinion Origen
affents, in his book Periarchon, concluding that the faints fight againft evil
fpirits, and, overcoming, do leflen their army ; neither can he that is over-
come by any moleft any more. As therefore there is given to every man a
good lpirit, fo there is given to every man anevil diabolical'fpirit, whereofeach
feeks an union with our fpirit, and endeavours to attract it to itfelf, and to be
mixed with it, as wine with water the good indeed, through all good
;
works conformable to itfelf, change us into angels by uniting us y as it is
written of John the Baptift in Malachi, “ behold I fend my angel before
thy face of which tranfmutation and union it is written elfewhere, he that
adheres to God is made one fpirit with him. An evil fpirit alio, by evil
works, ftudies to make us conformable to itfelf, and unite us, as C.hrijl lays
of Judas> “ Have not I chofen twelve, and one of you is a devil ?” And
this is that which Hermes fays, when a fpirit hath influence on the loul ofman,
he fcatters the feed of his own notion, whence fuch a foul, being lown with
feeds, and full of fury, brings forth thence wonderful things, and whatfo-
ever are the offices of fpirits for when, a good fpirit hath Influence on a holy-
:
foul, it doth exalt it to the light of wifdom ; but an evil fpirit being tranf-
fufed into a wicked loul, doth ftir it up to theft, to man-flaughter, to luff,
and whatfoever are the offices of evil fpirits. Good fpirits, as Jamblicus
fays, purge the fouls moft perfectly, and Ibme beftow upon us other good
things they being prefect, do give health to the body, virtue to the foul, and
;
fecurity what is mortal in us they take away, cherilh heat, and make it
;
more efficacious to life } and, by an harmony, do always infufe light into an
intelligible mind. But whether there be many keepers of a man, or one
alone, theologians differ among themfelves we think there are more, the
:
prophet laying, “ he hath given his angels a charge concerning thee, that
they Ihould keep thee in all thy ways,” which, as Hierome fays, is to be
underftood of any man, as well as of Chrift. All men, therefore, are go-
verned by the mimftry of different angels, and are brought to any degreePartl. CEREMONIAL MAGIC. 51
of virtue, deferts, and dignity, who behave themfelves worthy of them ;
but they who carry themfelves unworthy of them, are depofed and thruft
down, as well by evil fpirits as good fpirits, unto the lowed; degree of mifery,
as their evil merits fhall require j but they that are attributed to the fub-
limer angels, are preferred before other men ; for angels having the care
of them, exalt them, and fubjedt others to them by a certain occult
power, which, although neither of them perceive, yet he that is fubjedted
feels a certain yoke of prefidency, of which he cannot eafily quit himfelf ;
yea, he fears and reverences that power, which the fuperior angels make to
flow upon inferiors, and with a certain terror bring the inferiors into a fear
of prefidency. This did Homer feem to be fenfible of, when he fays, that
the Mufes begot of Jupiter, did always, as infeparable companions, affifl: the
kings begot ofJupiter, fpeaking figuratively, who by them were made vene-
rable and magnificent : fo we read that M. Antoninus. being formerly joined
in Angular friendfhip with Odtavius Augufius, were accuftomed always to
play together but when, as always, Augustus always went away conqueror, a
;
certain magician counfelled M. Antoninus thus : “ O Anthony, what dolt
thou do with that young man ? Shun and avoid him, for although thou art
older than he, and art more fkilful than he, and art better defcended than he,
and hath endured the wars of more emperors, yet thy Genius doth much
dread the Genius of this young man, and thy fortune flatters his fortune
;
unlefs thou lhaltlhunhim, it feems wholly to decline to him.” Is not theprince
like othermen ? how fhould other men fear and reverence him, unlefs a divine
terror fhould exalt him, and ftriking a fear into others, deprefs them, thatthey
fhould reverence him as a prince ? Whereforewe mufl endeavour, that, being
purified by doing well, and following fublime things, and choofing opportune
times and feafons, we be entrufled or committed to a degree of fublimer and
more potent angels, who taking care of us, we may defervedly be preferred
before others*^
2 THE CABALA OK Book IL
S y
CHAP.
IX.
THAT THERE IS A THREEFOLD KEEFER OF MAN, AND FROM WHENCE EACH OF' THEfcT-
EROCEED,.
EVERY
man hath a threefold good demon as a proper keeper or pre—
ferver, the one whereof is holy, another of the nativity, and the other ofpro-
fession. The holy demon is one, according to the dodtrine of the Egyptians
affigned to the rat — ional foul, not from the liars or planets, but from 2u
fupernatural caufe from God himfelf,. the prefident of demons, being
univerfal and above nature. This diredts the life of the foul, and does always
put good thoughts into the mind, being always adtive in illuminating us*,
although we do not always take notice of it j but when we are purified and;
live peaceably, then it is perceived by us, then it does, as it were, fpeak
with us, and communicates its voice to us, being before filerit, and Studies
daily to bring us to a facred perfedtion. So it falls out that fome profit more
in any fcience, or art, or office, in a lefs time and with little pains, when
another takes much pains and ftudies hard, and all in vain j and although no
fcience, art or virtue, is to be contemned, yet that you may live profperoufly*,
carry on thy affairs happily, in the firfb place, know thy good genius, and his
nature, and what good the celeftial difpofition promifes thee, and God the dif-
tributer of all thefe, who distributes to each as he pleafes, and follow the be-
ginnings of thefe, profefs thefe, be converfant in that virtue to which the moft.
high distributer doth elevate and lead thee who made Abraham excel in juf-
;
tice and clemency, lfaacwith fear, "Jacob with Strength, Mofes with meeknefs
and miracles, JoJhua in war, Phineas in zeal, David in religion and vidtory*.
Solomon in knowledge and fame, Peter in faith, John in charity, Jacob in devo-
tion, Thomas in prudence, Magdalen in contemplation, Martha in officiouf-
nefs. Therefore in what virtue you think you can moll: eafily be a proficient
in, nfe diligence to attain to the height thereof, that you may excel in one*
whenFart I. CEREMONIAL MAGIC, S3
when in manyyou cannot, but in the reft endeavour to be as great a proficient
&s you can but if thou fhalt have the overfeers ofnature and religion agreea-
;
ble, thou (halt find a double progrefs of thy nature and profeflion but ifthey
;
fhall be difagreeing, follow the better, for thou lhalt better perceive at fome
time a preferver ofan excellent profeflion then ofnativity.
C H A P. X.
THE TONGUE OF ANGELS, AND OF THEIR SPEAKING AMONGST THEMSELVES AND'
WITH
US'.
WE
might doubt whether angels or demons, fince they are pure fpirits,
ufe any vocal fpeech or tongue among themfelves or to us but that Paul, in
; —
fome place fays, “ ifI fpeak with the tongue of men or angels;” but what
their fpeech or tongue is, is much doubted by many.- For many think that if
they ufe any idiom, it is Hebrew, becaufe that was firft of all, and came from
heaven, and was before the confufion oflanguages in Babylon, in which the
law was given by God the Father, and the gofpel was preached by Chrift the
Son, and fo many oracles were given to the prophets by the Holy Ghoft and
;
feeing all tongues have and do undergo various mutations and corruptions, this
alone does always continue inviolated. Moreover, an evident fign of this opi-
nion is, that though this demon and intelligence do ufe the fpeech ofthofe na-
tions with whom they do inhabit, yet, to them who underftand it, they never
fpeak in any idiom but in this alone, viz. Hebrew. But now, how angels fpeak,
it is hid from us, as they themfelves are. Now, to us, that we may fpeak,
a tongue is neceflary with other inftruments ; as the jaws, palate, lips, teeth,
throat, lungs, the afperaarteria, and mufcles of the breaft, which have the be-
ginning ofmotion from the foul, But if I fpeak at a diftance to another, he
mud54 •THE CABALA} OR, Book II.
mud life a louder voice
}
but, if near, he whifpers in my ear, as ifhe fhould
be coupled to the hearer, without any noife, as an image in the eye or glafs.
So fouls going out of the body, lb angels, fo demons fpeak and what man does
;
with a fenfible voice, they do by impreffing the conception of the fpeech in
thofe to whom they fpeak after a better manner than if they fhould exprefs it in
an audible voice. So the Platonift fays, that Socrates perceived his demon by
fenfe, indeed, but not of this body, but by the fenfe ofthe etherial body con-
cealed in this after which manner Avicen believes the angels were wont to be
}
feen and heard by the prophets. That inllrument, whatfoever the virtue be,
by which one fpirit makes known to another fpirit what things are in his mind,
is called by the apoftle Paul the tongue of angels. Yet oftentimes they fend
,
forth an audible voice, as they that cried at the afcenlion ofthe Lord, Ye men
of Galilee, why Hand ye here gazing unto th x heaven? Andin the old law they
fpake with divers ofthe fathers with a fenfible voice but this never but when
}
they alfumed bodies. But with what fenfes thefe fpirits and demons hear our
invocations and prayers, and fee our ceremonies, we are altogether ignorant.
For there is afpiritualbodyof demons every where fenfible by nature, fo that
it touches, fees, hears without any medium, and nothing can bean impediment
to it yet they do not perceive after the fame manner as we do, with different
;
organs, but haply as fponges drink in water, fo do they all fenlible things
with their body or feme other way unknown to us; neither are all animals en-
dowed with thofe organs, for we know that many want ears, yetwe know they
perceive a found, butafter what manner we know not.
CHAP.CEREMONIAL MAGTCi
Part I. 55
CHAP.
XI.
OF THE NAMES OF SPIRITS, AND THEIR VARIOUS IMPOSITION, AND OF THE SPIRITS THAT
ARE SET OVER THE STARS, SIGNS, CORNERS OF THE HEAVEN, AND THE ELEMENTS.
MANY
and different are the names ofgood and bad fpirits ? but their pro-
per and true names, as thofe ofthe ftars, are known to God alone, who only
numbers the multitude offtars, and calls themby theirnames,,whereofnone can
be known by us but by divine revelation very few are exprefled to us in fa-
;
cred writ. But the matters of the Hebrews think, that the names ofangels
are impofed on them by Adam, according to that which is written, “ the Lord
brought all things which he had made unto Adam, that he fhould name them,
and as he called any thing, fo the name of it was.” Hence the Hebrew
Mecubalsthink,together with Magicians and Cabalifts, that itis in the powerof
man to impofe names upon fpirits, but of fuch a man onlywho is dignified and
elevated to this virtue by fome divine gift or facred authority : but becaufe a
name that may exprefs the nature ofdivinity, or the whole virtue ofangelical
effences, cannot be made by any human voice, therefore names for the moft part
are put upon them from their works, fignifying fome certain office or effect
which is requiredby the quire offpirits ; which name then, andnot otherwife,
obtains efficacy and virtue to draw any fpiritual fubftance from above, or be-
neath, to make any defired effect.
I have feen and known fome writing on virgin parchment the name and
feal of fome fpirit in the hour of the moon, which afterwards he gave to be
devoured by a water-frog, and had muttered over fome verfe the frog be-
j
ing let go into the water, rains and fhowers prefently followed. I faw alfo
the fame man infcribing the name of another fpirit with the feal thereof in
the hour of Mars, which was given to a crow, who, being let go, aftera verfe
muttered over, there followed from that part of the heaven whither it flew,
lightnings, fhaking, and horrible thunders, with thick [clouds neither were
i
thofe.; ; ; ; ; ; ; ,:;
56 THE CABALA OR, Book IB
j
thofe names of fpirits of an unknown tongpe, neither did they fignify any
thing elfe but their offices of this kind are the names of thofe angels, Ra-
;
ziel, Gabrieli Michael Raphael Haniel, which is as much as to fay thevifion
,
of God, the virtue of God, the Strength of God, the medicine of God, the
glory of God, In like manner, in the offices of evil demons are read their
names, viz. a player a deceiver a dreamer afornicator and many fuch like.
, , , ,
So we receive from many of the ancient fathers of the Hebrews the names
of angels fet over the planets and figns over Saturn Zaphiel over Jupi-
; ,
ter, Zadkiel-, over Mars , Camael -, over the Sun , Raphael -, over Venus , Haniel
over Mercury, Michael over the Moon Gabriel. Thefe are thofe feven fpi-
,
rits which always ftand before the face of God, to whom is entrufted the dif-
pofing the whole celeftial and terrene kingdoms which are under the moon
for thefe (as the more curious theologians fay) govern all things by a cer-
tain viciffitude of hours, days, and years as the aftrologers teach concerning
;
the planets which they are fet over, which Mercurius Trifmegiftus calls the
feven governors of the world, who, by the heavens as by inftruments, dis-
tribute the influences of all the Stars and figns upon their inferiors. There are
fome who afcribe them to the Stars by names Somewhat differing, faying,
that over Saturn is fet an intelligence called Oriphael, over Jupiter Zachariel,
over Mars Zamael, over the Sun Michael, over Venus Anael, over Mercury
Raphael, over the Moon Gabriel. And every one of thefe governs the world
354 years and four months ; and the government begins from the intelligence
of Saturn afterwards, in order, the intelligences ofVenus, Jupiter Mercury
,
Mars, the Moon, and the Sun reigns, and the government returns to the Spirit
of Saturn.
Tritemius writ to Maximilian Caefar a Special treatife concerning thefe,
which he that will thoroughly examine may from thence draw great know-
ledge of future times. * Over the twelve figns are fet thefe, viz. over Aries,
Malahidael, over Taurus,Afmodel over Gemini,AmhrieT, over Cancer, Muriel
;
Z
over Leo, VerchieT, over Virgo, Hamaliel over Libra, Uriel over Scorpio,
;
Barchiel over Sagittarius, Advachiel over Capricorn Hanael over Aquarius
, ; ,
Cambiel over Pifces Barchiel. Of thefe fpirits fet over the planets and
•, ,
figns,
Tritemius on Spirits,, , ; ;
Part L CEREMONIAL MAGIC. "$7
figns, John made mention ofin the Revelation, fpeaking of the former in the
beginning and the feven fpirits which are in the prefence of the throne of
;
God, which I find are fet over the feven planets, in the end of the book,
where he defcribes the platform of the heavenly city, faying, thaton the
twelve gates thereofare twelve angels. There are again twenty-eight angels,
who rule in the twenty-eight manfions of the moon, whofe names are thefe
Geniel, Enediel, Anixiel
,
Azariel
,
Gabiel, Dirachiel, ScbeHe/, Amnediel, Bar-
bie/, Ardefid, Neciel, Abdizue Jazeriel, Ergediel, Atliel, Azeruel, Adrid,
l,
Egibid, Amutiei, Kyriel, Bethnael, Gelid, Requid, AbrinaeZ, Aziel, Tagriel,
Atheniel, Amnixiel. There are alfo four princes of the angels, which are fet
over the four winds, and over the four parts of the world. Michael is
placed over the eaft-wind, Raphael over the weft, Gabriel over the north,
Nariel, who by fome is called Ariel, is over the fouth. There are alfo
afligned to the elements thefe, viz. to the air Cherub to the water Tharjis
, ,
Now
to the earth Ariel to the fire Seraph. every one of thefe fpirits is a
great prince, and has much power and freedom in the dominion of his own
planets and figns, and in their times, years, months, days and hours and in
;
their elements, and parts of the world, and winds. And every one of them
rules over many legions ; and after the fame manner, among evil fpitits, there
are four, who, as moft potent kings, are fet over the reft, according to the
four parts ofthe world, whofe names are thefe, viz. Urieus, king ofthe eaft
;
Amaymon, king of the fouth Baymon, king of the weft Egin, king of the
; ;
north which the Hebrew doctors perhaps call more rightly thus, Samuel,
;
Azazel, Azael, and Mahazuel under whom many others rule as princes of
legions and rulers. Likewife there are innumerable demons ofprivate offices.
Moreover the ancient theologians ofthe Greeks reckon up fix demons, which
they call Telchines, others- Alajlores which bearing ill-will to men, take up
water out of the river Styx with their hands, fprinkle it upon the earth,
whence follow calamities, plagues, and famines and thefe are faid to be
;
Adieus, Megalezius, Ormenus, Lycus, Nicon, Mhnon. But he that defires
to know exa&ly the diftinbt names, offices, places, and times of angels, and
evil demons, let him inquire into the book of Rabbi Sir/ion of the Temples,
and in his book of Lights, and in his treatife of the Greatnefs of Stature,
Book II. I and\
58 THE CABALA OR,
;
and in the treatife of the Temples of Rabbi Ifhmael, and in almoft all the-
commentaries of his book of Formation, and he ffiall find it written at large-
concerning them.
CHAP.
XII.
..IE CABAL1STS DRAW FORTH THE SACRED NAMES OF ANGELS FROM SACRED WRIT, AND OF
THE SEVENTY-TWO ANGELS, WHO BEAR T.HE NAMES OF GOD; WITH THE TABLES OF- ZIRUFH^,
AND THE COMMUTATIONS OF NAMES AND NUMBERS.
THfeRE
are alfo other facred names of good and evil fpirits deputed to
each office of much greater efficacy than the former, which the Cabalifts
draw from facred writ, according to that art which we teach concerning
them ; as alfo certain names of God are drawn forth out' of certain places :
the general rule of thefe is, that wherefoever any thing of divine eflence is
exprefied in the Scripture, from that place the name of God may be gathered
;
but in what place foever in the Scripture the name of God is found exprefied,
then mark what office lies under that name wherefoever therefore the Scrip-
;
ture fpeaks of the office or work of any fpirit, good or bad, from thence the
name of that fpirit, whether good or bad, may be gathered this unalter-
;
able rule being obferved, that of good fpirits we receive the names of good
fpirits, of evil the names of evil and let us not confound black with white,
:
nor day with night, nor light with darknefs, which, by thefe verfes as by
an example, is manifefi: :
“
Let them be as dufl before the face of the wind and let the angel ofthe
;
Lord fcatter them let their ways be darknefs and flippery and let the angel
:
of the Lord purfiie them.”
nrHmrt* nr poa.w
r
EDDT7 nirv nip^> p^m *pn Dm-fir
in the xxxvth Pfalm with the Hebrews, but with us, the xxxivth ; of
which the names ofthofe angels are drawn, Midael and !?ntd Miriael
,
_ ofPart I. CEREMONIAL MAGIC, 59
of the order of warriors fo of that verfe, “ thouJhaltJet over him the wicked
; ,
and Satan fhall Jiand at his right-hand out of Pfalm cix. with the He-
brews, but with the Latins, cviii.
wo* pirn jmn vby ‘lpsn
is extracted the name of the evil fpirit Scbii, >y-w, which fignifies a fpirit
that is a worker of engines. There is a certain text in Exodus contained
in three verfes, whereof every one is written with feventy-two letters, be-
V
ginning thus the hrft ajifa, yon, the fecond Vajabo , ton, the third Vajot ,
o»i ; which are extended into one line, viz. the firft and the third from the
left-hand to the right, but the middle in a contrary order, beginning from
the right to the left, is terminated on the left-hand then each of the three
;
letters being fubordinate the one to the other, make one name, which are
feventy-two names, which the Hebrews call Schemhamphorce, to which if the
divine name El bx or Jah nir be added, they produce feventy-two trifyllable
names ofangels, whereof every one carries the great name of God, as it is
written, “ my angel fhall go before thee ; obferve him, for my name is in
him.” And thefe are thofe that are fet over the feventy-two celeftial qui-
naries, and fo many nations and tongues, and joints of man’s body, and co-
operate with the feventy-two feniors of the fynagogue, and fo many difciples
of Chrift and their names, according to the extraction which the Cabalifts
:
make, are manifeft in the following table, according to the manner which we
have mentioned.
Now there are many other ways of making Schemhamphorce out of thofe
verfes as when all three are written in a right order, one after the other,
;
from the right to the left, belides thofe which are extracted by the tables of
Ziruph, and the tables of commutations, of which we made mention of be-
fore. Becaufe thefe tables ferve for all names, as divine, fo angelical, we
fhall therefore fubjoin them to this chapter.
Thefe are the feventy-two angels, bearing the name of God, Schemham-
phorce.
For the tables, &c. fee the annexed Plates, No, i, 2, 3, 4.
C HAP.
I 2.
6o T«£ CABALA OR, Bookir;
;
chap.
xnr.
OF FINDING OUT THE NAMES OF SPIRITS AND GENII, FROM THE DISPOSITION OP THS'
CELESTIAL BODIES.
THE
ancient magicians taught an art of finding out the name ofa fpirit
to any defired effedt, drawing it from the difpofition of the heavens as, for
j
example, any celeftial harmony being propofed to thee, to make an image,
or a ring, or any other Work to be done under any. conEellation, if thou wilt
find out the fpirit that is the ruler of that work, the figure of the heaven,
being eredted, caft forth letters in their number and order, from the degree
of the afcendant, according to the fuccefiion offigns through each degree, by
filling the whole circle of the heavens ; then thofe letters which fall into the
places of the Ears, the aid of which you would ufe, being according to the
number and power of thofe Ears, marked without into number and order,,
make the name ofa good fpirit. But if thou wilt do fo from the beginning
of a degree falling againji the progrefs of the figns, the refulting fpirit fhall
be evil. By this art feme of the Hebrews and Chaldean maEers teach that
the nature and name ofany genius maybe found out.; as for example, the
degree of the afcendant of any one's nativity being known, and the other
corners of the heaven being co-equated, then let that which had the moE
dignities of planets in thofe four corners, which the Arabians call Almutez,
be firE obferved among the reE and according to that in the fecond place,
;
that which fhall be next to it in the number of dignities, and fo in order the
reE of them, which obtain any dignity in the aforefaid corners;
This order being ufed, you may know the true place and degree ofthem in
.
the heavens, beginning from the degree of the afcendant through each degree,
according to the order of figns, to caE twenty-two of the letters of the He-
brews then what letters fhall fall into the places of the aforefaid Ears, being
;
marked and difpofed according to the order found out above in the Ears, and
rightly1
I. CEREMONIAL MAGIC. 6
rightly joined together according to the rules ofthe Hebrew tongue, make the
name of a genius to which, according to the cuEom, fome monofyliable
;
name of Divine Omnipotence, viz. El or Jah, is fubjoined. But if the call-
ing ofthe letters be made from an angle of the falling, and againfl the fuccef-
Eon of the figns, and the letters which lhail fall in the Nadir (that is the
oppofite point) of the aforefaid Ears be after that order, as are faid, joined
together, fhall make the name ofan evil genius.
But the Chaldeans proceed another way, for they take not the Almutez of
the angles but the Almutez ofthe eleventh houfe, and do all things as has been
Now
faid. they find out an evil genius from the Almutez of the angle of the
twelfth houfe, which they call an evil fpirit, calling from the degree of the
falling againft the progrefs of the figns.
e h a p. xiv:
Ot THE CALCULATING ART OF IUCH NAMES BY THE TRADITION OF CABAL1STS.
THERE
is yet another art of thefe kind of names, which they call calcu-'
latory ; and it is made by the following tables, by entering with fome facred,
divine, or angelical name, in the column ofletters defcending, by taking thofe
letters which thou lhalt find in the common angles'under their Ears and figns,
which beingreduced into order, the name ofa good fpirit is made ofthe nature
ofthat Ear or fign under which thou didE enter ; but if thou lhalt enter in the
column afcending, by taking the common angles above the Ears and
lip-ns
marked in the loweE line, the name ofan evil fpirit is made. And thefe are
the names offpirits of any order of heaven miniEering, as ofgood, fo of bad,
which yon may after this manner multiply into nine names of fo many orders
;
inafmuchas you may, by entering with one name, draw forth another ofa fpirit
of62 THE CABALA
;
OR, Book IL
ofa fuperior order out of the fame, as well ofa good as a bad one yet the be-
;
ginning of this calculation depends upon the names of God for every word
;
hath a virtue in magic , inafmuch as it depends on the wordofGod, and is thence
framed. Therefore we muft know that every angelical name mud: proceed
from fome primary name of God. Therefore angels are faid to bear the name
of God, according to that which is written, “ becaufe my name is in him. ;”
therefore that the names ofgood angels may be difcerned from the names ofbad,
there is wont oftentimes to be added fome name ofDivine Omnipotence, as El t
or On, or Jab, orJod, and to be pronounced together with it : and becaufe Jah
is a name of beneficence, and Jod the name of a deity, therefore thefe two
names are put only to the names ofangels ; but the name El, becaufe it imports
power and virtue, is therefore added, not only to good but bad fpirits for nei-
;
ther can evil fpirits either fubfift or do any thing without the virtue of El, God.
But we mull know that common angles of the fame ftar and fign are to be
taken, unlefs entrance be made with a mixt name, as are the names ofgenii, and
thofe of which it hath been fpoken in the preceding chapter, which are
made of the difpofitions of the heavens, according to the harmony ofdivers
ftars. For as often as the table is to be entered with thefe, the common angle
is to be taken under the ftar or fign ofhim that enters.
There are moreover fome that do fo extend thofe tables that they think alfo
if there be an entrance made with the name of a flar, or office, or any ae-
fired effect, a demon, whether good or bad, ferving to that office or effed
may be drawn out upon the fame account they that enter with the proper
;
name ofany perfon can extract the names of the genii under that ftar which
fhall appear to be over fuch a perfon as they ffiall, by his phyfiognomy, or by
the paffions and inclinations of his mind, and by his profeffion and fortune,
know him to be either martial, orfaturnine, orfolary, or of the nature ofany
other ftar.
And although fuch kind of primary names have none or little power by their
fignification, yet fuch kind of extracted names, and fuch as are derived from
them, are of very great efficacy; as the rays of the fun colledled in a hollow
jglafs do moft intenfely burn, the fun itfelfbeingicarce warm.
Now. ' . ,
v/y at crr?& t/*uie, na^me^
ft 7 71 71 ft 7 n 7 ;S n 3 K "3 ft D a 'i l
7 \ ? t n n N 7 T ft 71 b 71 P i p 7
1 V 1 *i 71 *7 V 7 7 1 n X 7 ur a ft *i 1
sx n*1 7X >K 7x rr TP 77 7X p 7* 1 7Xs 7*! PX n1
h
£ t f v t b o 3 s , s ; t f i f f t t t q - S f f V t t • f f f < f t * t t t v k O < f £ N f f N f t c t t ‘ f f f f f f t t c t t t j - - 1 - f h f f f f t t t t t - - 1- X f ft t .• f f & k t* * t k f f f f f t t t t tft • f r05 t , s x i f 1 t - tf g s e . * tl r b ft b f • ^ N > t * f 7 w f f f t t t t - -
ft-
n 2 7 *1 1 7 N 7 ID n n 1 n 0 3 . ft L 7 .
•*
3 1 n n ft 7 ? i K 7 s n n p *7 P > 7
f 7 t- i 3 v ? T 7 V' n'1 T 7 V P 2 fc f f t t * b t s W n S n k n s n ’ 7 T 1 l 7 n n 7 b n x P ^ ' : ? — i I ii ! . 7 >•. i 1
* f 1 t — a 1 w f 5 t 5 * - h b S f ft t- ' a f f ^ t c S ' 4 S § f f 1 t t - h r r f t ' f « * f t s , t t . * f f o f t > t t ff f f t t t t , , • ' 5 f f t t * ? b £ f f f t t , t N f S f b f f c t t t q j 1 " f f fa s t t t N N - , * 5 i P f 1 t ; - i 1 . f f^ t t * - S f f f« f t t t * t - 1 ft f f f f f f f t t t t t t t ° ’ - 1 ! 1 S h f f Os t t '
^>4
} 3 *1y n 7 r ft y y ft 1 a 7 i 7 n X
S ) ft n J 71 1 W 7 N 7 ) n -ft y J |
n ft- w i 1 n 7 3 p 7 n 7 y D t
Vx "?N n 1 n'’ 3S’ 7N ‘IN 77 7X 7 1 7* 1 n"1 7N 7K 7X 7x n* 1 "iX
f & f 05 t t * & 3 f f f t t . t f s f 3 f f t t c , * f f fn f f t t t t t s 1 - - b f f <Ts t t S» • s f a f t t, . * f f f 0 * 5 t t t , N - , C S f o t- k f f t t ,’ s s > ; f f & » f f f t t t * • t t - S f f t t . - f § k f t - t X 5 f f f f t t t t . s — f < f f t N t . t i ‘ - b b f b t « b f 5 f f f 3 t t t t 51 - f f ^ f k t * t t *
!2 n n 71 s n ft V i D 7 1 fl- o
p a X 7 3 ft n 1 n 23 S 7 'I ft V. 2
ft > a n 7 V 1 p 1 7 2 7 7 ft 1 ft
71 7N 7' 7N T> SK >X 7X 7K 7 1 71
u b k
fbt b
£ 3 ft f f O fN t t , t i f C 1 t M - b f <N t \ o -- - — ! f f f f t t t t * -4 ^ f ^ t v. f f r N t t % . f ff 1 f 1 t tt t - - f b fV f f t t t t , f , , t s 3 s 5 ^ * 5 Vi S ^ ft s V , ? I; r ft & ' f f k t i t . - ( f f^t t V ,4 1 < 3 f 3 t v $ !^ f - t ' . f p f& t t Sf • t -
Vft fc
t. Pul.lyL ctplcirLCfcOTifc^/Zen. . J\.<Griffith Sculj't:
:;
QJ/A&
<_ -sf'1
X2 3 i n i r n £3 1 3 P 3D 3 C y 2 £P P jy n
X
n 3 3 p n 3 1 n a 1 3 S 3 J c y 32 ? p m
n X 2 3 p n i I n 13 P 3 Vr y 3 s Pi
.
n D n X 3 3 P n 3 T n 3 ' 3 ‘p 3D 2 i 3y s V
w
p p n X 3 i n n 1 3 s P D y 3 2
3 l r
w
% P n X 3 1 1 n l n i 3 1 k- ^ ? 3 1 D y 3
2 s P i D n X 2 i n i ! 1 1 Q 1 7 33 3 y
y 2 0 n X 2 1 n 0 1 <:h a
3£ P "i i 77 3 33 3
D y 2 y P 1 0 n X 3 P n 'it n a • D P 33 l
3
l D y 2 s P ® n X 2 3 i 1 3 r he 2 ’ 3 S 0
ft 3 V 2 I ? 12 n X 3 1 • 71 3 f r Q *r D "*7
T D ]• D y 3 y P tr n X 1 1 l 1 T7 D P 3
D T D 3 y 2 2 P 1 27 n x 3 3 P n i T n 13
1 D a 3 y 2 2 p 1 0 n > 2 3 1 7 1 I n 10
0 7 3 *? P ] y 2 2 P 3 u r X 3 3 - 71 1 Tr T!
n Q 1 3 n 2 D y s y p “1 27 n X 3 3 P 71 J
-
t n Iff P D *7 P 3 c y 2 2 p u n x 13 P n
l ? n V 1 D *? D 3 O V 9 y p 1 D n n 3 3 t n
n i r n K 3 s £ 3 D 7 s y P P 32?n n X 3 i p
i n I n b P 3 Z2 3 D y s 2 P Ptt X * n 3
3 i n l r n 13 P 3 P a 4 1 o y 2 2 P*3 a n X 3
]D
2 1 i n i f n is 1 *1 3 3 P 1 ft n di
P
ParrcttDtl. R Gnjfilh Sculp,.
Pub. hyZacking-lon.itJUlen
..
Tailt < (yA& Sfrz/b/ of Z/l€/ < ^Crm/HWM/urn<l
DO r DD yn 2! Si ' pn nn D3 no Pn
OP 30 D01 ^0 “sn sr rn i in un ni ON
&
00 20 T sn ?? ! n-? on nn ;n
2D OP ?= ! 2' “SB TpTn nr U' nn 40 ns
n: y 0 n 0 _. S y. P p e S d O P 2P 1 no o n n n “T 0 T ? T" r n p 3 n n o o n I x N
OT y: 3D PD n 1’ nn nj 10 fN
yo 21 ££ no O' no nn 13 TO nx
yn 2D S3 Pfl np ra n1 in mr: no ON
sy P>3 nft WP no in rn 133 iN
21 ?D n] uo np rn nn a; ’0 ON
X2 P? no "D’W3 rro~ m7 1 nn on OO Px
1ST ?s ~iy n3 on ^n 03 PD on
PIC ns "W+TiQ“ nr to1 >n on P3 DO 3N
T>n ns D3 "rnr or 1 1 on pn D3 30 DN
P
n
’
p
S t e? p P s
”nWs ~&
JT
r
I
r
^o ' r r 4 0 p 1 i o
p
n
n o
i
n
n 0 3 3 3
D
y
O
o
?
S
N
N
vn n? on PT 01 in on _2i_ 2D sx
nr. nn OD pn “bt 31 on j-i S3 3Q •pK
niz; 0^ " P W o no “TT' D1 VTi sn XI PO mnx
ns pi in or £1 sn sn PI no
PS dp 30 on yr 21 “^rr pn nl HOOT nx
ZAejfZfat/<77ta//JSTaffe/ of ^Z^&rt/fiy/i/S'
m
on 30 O’ yo an sr p' in 2J1 ON
DP £ sa nn nr nn 31 X
- 3
M D g 1 _S y J o _ 30 P £ P 3 ~n ? W ’ o n EP o o n n n n on r 3 1 3 n n n n x x
-&£. SO p: no no 3' ;o i Ji n t n? ~Tx~
X 3 -jPJL- no 03 nn 3P 33 n’ ns in IX
OS n^ py no 01 3D pP no. V b nx
np t. s?S ns oy 30 P3 IP mTO - n r ’ DN
_ en up f^- -Ifl.. ny no 13 ra 03 1 X
nu on IP ns ns iy ro n: ’p OX
T
nn 3T» nn r n p 15 T£> ny DO '“OS' IX
IS nr rrcz? IP' ~ns- TflS 00 TT ~DN~1
TL ns in id nn TS 3£ py DO X
n
i
n
n i
iH3
H
T
3
P n
03
n 0
T
0
* DO
o
r
p
l D
P
P
S D
3J
3
C
._
0
i
2
y_ D
y
3N
x~
!
1 n H ? ~~ nn W n > n n. on -^03- d n d n 1 D 3j O n ~o I w T 3 Dp n ._ e 3 p | n _ a s x x
._m
I it sn o ’ nr —1^ . r si r p 07 n o j n n n 33 s I c T y T ~Pm s K n T n P ^ X
1 S' PD own '~rr 01 yn £n OX
Po D 1 on yr 31 *n pn “13 e/3 Pn
no ns sa yo P3 n D Pf in 13 3N
jPizfr. fryZatkmpfrvn&*s2Z/*ns. , R GriffithSculp,-
Part L CEREMONIAL MAGIC. 6
3
Now there Is an order of letters in thofe tables under the Pars and figns,
almoP like that which is with the afirologers, of tens^elevens, twelves. Of
this calculatory art Alphonfus Cyprius once wrote, and alfo fitted it to Latin
characters but becaufe the letters ofevery tongue, as we Ihewed in the firP
;
Book, have, in their number, order and figure, a celePial and divine original, I
fihall eafily grant this calculation concerning the names offpirits to be made not
only by Hebrewletters* but alfo Chaldean, Arabick Egyptian Greek and Latin
, f ,
and many others, the tables being rightly made after the imitation of the pre-
fidents.
But here it is objected by many, that it falls out that in thefe tables men of
a differing nature and fortune do oftentimes, by reafon of the famenefs of
name, obtain'the fame genius of the fame name. We muP know therefore
that it muP not be thought abfurd, that the fame daemon may be feparated
from any one foul, and the fame be fet over more. Befides, as many men have
the lame name, fo alfo fpirits of divers offices or natures may be noted or
marked by. one name, and by one and the fame feal or character, yet in a dif-
ferent refpeCt for as the ferpent does fometimes typify ChriP, and fometimes
;
the devil, fo the fame names and the fame feals may be applied fometimes to
the order ofa good demon, fometimes of a bad one. LaPly, the very ardent
intention of the invocatOr,, by which our intellect is joined to the feparated
intelligences, is the caufe that we have fometimes one fpirit, fometimes another,
(although called upon under the fame name,) made obfequious to us.
See the 'following Plates for the tables of the calculation of the names of
fpirits, goodand bad, under the, prefidency of the feven planets, and under the
order ofthe twelve militant figns.
CHAP.64 THE CABALA; OR* Book !I.
CHAP.
XV.
OF THE CHARACTERS AND SEALS OF SPIRITS.
WE
muft now fpeak of the characters and feals of fpirits. Characters are
nothing elfe than certain unknown letters and writings, preferving the fecrets of
fpirits and their names from the ufe and reading of prophane men, which the
ancients called hieroglyphical, or facred letters, becaufe devoted to the fecrets
of God only. They accounted it unlawful to write the myfteries of God with
thofe characters which prophane and vulgar things were wrote. Whence
Porphyry fays, “ that the ancients were willing to conceal God and divine vir-
tues, by fenfible figures and by thofe things which are vifible, yet fignifying
invifible things 5” as being willing to deliver great myfteries in facred letters,
and explain them in certain fymbolical figures as when they dedicated all
;
round things to the world, the fun and the moon, hope and fortune a circle
;
to the heavens, and parts ofa circle to the moon pyramids and obelifks to the
— ;
fire, a cylinder to the fun and earth. See the plate.
CHAP.
XVI.
ANOTHER WAY OF MAKING CHARACTERS, ACCORDING TO THE CABALISTS.
f
AMONG
the Hebrews I find more fafhions of characters, whereof one is
moft ancient, viz. an ancient writing which Mofes and the prophets ufed, the
form of which is not rafhly to be difcovered to any for thofe letters which
;
they ufe at this day were inftituted by Efdras. There is among them a writing
which they call celeftial, becaufe they fhew it placed and figured among the
itars.f 3
—
- ) *1 - * * r» r »*' i * *
'
• *
Vpyqrrltcnnoiyy ^,>n/OA_p,i 3 '>‘ljjp<
-
1® % u J j — Hi a 3| — 0 3 I
v:i
' V* 13 CJ' IS 1^5 xJ
-Jt M
o
3 a n % 3 3 J 3 3 -* G Lj V
15 Lj Id u: XJ LJ
a
G 3 X M 3 3 X 3
4^* t_» —si II k: 13 id JT s~» U3 vJ t) **
\ — a
D 3 U 3 3
3 u» -v» II $5 C( (3 13 IS M E — 1^5 XJ 40 I,
© 3 u 3 D — q U a 3 a 3 © r
Xj
i —
% V3 13
15?
i-M S —
-»
V! 13 sN
3 3 a X
U 3 — n 3 ^
Xl Lj v:
C3 IS fl 13 ID _» 8
3 3 J — 3 a 3 Z G
40 — Vi
i5 xJ —* 13
-M IXS 1 £3 <3 «
u U
v: 3 H 3 j 3 a 3
4oc 13 ID UT 25 vr
jt -M XJ CJ -* %
— •f—
n 6 D Cj D 3 u G 3 — 3 UN
-1 xJ j ti 13
\x! li> ^ x ^
CN '
VM
- lyi/ru-jy -fiocr/p'jh TO-.l Ji tJ ^
y-A
fS
t>/*£up J^lO ^ vj'ii'iheywd *
— '>”pf ZjS :
u
'SkS X u J u G D 3 3 r-
--
S-J 0
|ft 3r xJ ® id XI <3
&
D
— a U V
3 G -* 3 V3 3 VI r
is
-*, < G 3 a ~w C J f Xj 1 — 3 e i/ ? S vi 3 -* 1 u U VJ 1 u r r 3 | 3 a Vl_jt \ — X U u n
? r n. r a u a i — 3 3 13 3 j-j 4
13 v: -i 19
j* i u 3 i/i 3 n 3 3 a \j G 3
r 3 ? a %j T M D 15 1 3 .M v U -» K s 3 1/3 3 y. 13 3 3 ( 3 S
-• vi w. ID
a U 25 _1 x n £ 3 { X 3 G 3 G — l-i
— V=J I C D 3 J 3 3 1 i a * i-» n X 3 u J yj n 3 G 3 3 1x5 xJ —
ID « » 1 m r o 3 V<
u a 1 1 u — 3 3 3 &
3 J 3 IVD
S-J 13
3 Ui >c: 25 t a _i i } (3 C 3 Z u ~M — G G 3
— X 3 3 e
X 3 J * ^ a -» 13 15? a — G 1 ~M S 3 — — » U 1/3 3 3 3 B
X U , cs 2 u 5 IXS —- v! 13 xl % * - 4 157 13 3 1—*
G G 3 3 d 3 — U
VJ
*3 ID j-j C5 25 OC M
% 3 u a 3 3 1 1x5 [ 3 » n i y
-» t3 xJ 15 vi J v r 13 c; r I
3 ! f
- U
3 G J vi a D 3 3 3 Lj
i
vx: 15? • ]|J - C!
>
I §L*-^tnid/ efO^€/Bi/ Tf^d?id^?ZHdd ivNd^c///ai£^ n
KEM
DE
^ ^ B c _ .. „ F C -M r HTT -xT T^ T AT
o p a T V X
3sr
.*Lamed C0emh J A ed Tukelh Gnkelh TZaire Van Be Halelh Jim el 2Beth Bxle/ih
rn“H
Tan UJhtn H
lies
TKuff XZade 9Be ABin UJamech ANutt M Mem
71
ca//<dCtyfZdZzv/uNB.
afik Jod Theth Chelh Lain. Van He Dulelh- Gimel Beth Hlefh-
w? ? ? ? P ?
mru 1
6 6 <T
esh Kuff Zade Be- Bin- Jamech Samech Sckin Tan Nun Mem Lamed
- •
vTU
i
ftt
cJ/in Mrktaw cg//h Z^dAvnd tZc.ZZddr-N
imed Cafih Jod Theft Chelh 'fain ^ Van He- Dalelh Gimel Belh Hlelih
frt-in Besh Huff Lade Be- Bin Samech Nun Mem
Arxi37£l
'VJ
Bu-b.byLacAirjyton KAZletf. R Griffith-JcutfiPart I. CEREMONIAL MAGIC. %
.liars. There is alfo a writing which they call Malachim , or Melachim , i. e. of
angels, or regal ; there is alfo another, which they call the paffing through
the river, and the characters and figures of all which you may fee in the fol-
lowing Plates.
There is another manner among the Cabalifts, formerly held in great efteem,
hut now it is fo common that it is placed among prophane things, viz. the
twenty-feven characters of the Hebrews may be divided into three clafies,
whereofevery one contains nine letters. The firfl, viz. onnmjQN which are
the feals or marks offimple numbers and of intellectual things diftributed
into nine orders of angels. The fecond hath the marks of tens and
•celeftial things in the nine orbs ofthe heavens. The third hath the other four
letters, with the five final, viz. ^prjmnp, which are marks of hundreds,
and inferior things, viz. four fimple elements, and five kinds ofperfect com-
pounds- They do now and then cliftribute thefe three clafies into nine cham-
bers, the firltis of units, viz. intellectual, celeftial and elemental. The fecond
is oftwo’s, the third ofthree’s, and fo ofthe reft thefe chambers are frame*a
;
by the interfeClion of four parallel lines interfeCting themfelves into right
angles, as is exprefied in the following Plate, fig. A.
Out of which, being difleCted into parts, proceed nine particular figures
(fee Plate, fig.B.) whichare ofthe nine chambers, characterizing their letters
by that Notariacon, which, ifit be of one point, fliews the firft letter of that
chamber ifoftwo, the fecond ifof three, the third letter as ifyou would
; ; ;
frame the character Michael, ViO'D, that comesforth extended with five figures
(for which fee the Plate C.) which are contracted to three figures,
which then are contracted into one, yet the points Notariacon are ufually
omitted, and then there comes forth fuch a character of Michael. See
D.
fig.
There is yet another falhion of characters common to almoft all letters
and tongues, and very eafy, which is by gathering together ofletters ; as if the
name of the angel Michael be given, the characters thereof fhall be framed
according to the fig. E.
Book K And
II., . ;
66 THE CABALA OR,. Book II.
;
And this fafhion among the Arabians is mofl received ; neither is there’
any writing which is fo readily and elegantly joined to itfelf as the Arabick.
You mufl know that angelical fpirits, feeing they are of a pure intellect, and
.
altogether incorporeal, are not marked with any marks or characters, or any
other human fi’gns ; but we, not otherwife knowing their edence or quality,
„do, from their names, ox works, or otherwife, devote and confecrate to them
,
figures and marks, by which we cannot any way compel them to us, but by
which we rife up to them, as not to be known by fuch characters and figures
and, firft of all, we do fet our fenfes, both inward and outward, upon them
then, by a certain admiration of our reafon, we are induced to. a religious ve-
neration of them d and then are wrapt with our whole mind into an ecftatical
adoration ; and then with a wonderful belief, an undoubted hope, and quick- -
ening love, calling upon them in fpirit and truth by true names and charac-
ters, do obtain from them that virtue or power which we defire.
G H A P. XVII.
THERE IS ANOTHER KIND OF CHARACTERS, OR MARKS OF SPIRITS^WHICH ARE RECEIVED
ONLY BY REVELATION.
.
THERE
is another kind of character received by revelation only, which
can be found out no another way the virtue of which characters is from the
;
Deity revealing of whom there are fome fecret works breathing out a har-
;
mony of fome divinity, or they are, as it were, fome certain agreements or
compacts of a league between us and them. Of this kind there was a lign
fhewed to Conjiantine which was this, in hoc vince ; there was another re- •
vealed to Antiochus in the figure ofa Pentangle, which fignihes health for,
-,
« being“03
w'll
P'N
D1
HDH
n
13
U
f$D 'isn
|
|
JZ
<f.
LLucnnrm
c U L C C
±
ILC, , ;
L CEREMONIAL MAGIC.
Part 6
7
being refolvedinto letters, it fpeaks the word iylaa, i. e. health : in the faith
and virtue of which figns, both kings obtained a great vi&ory againft their
enemies. So Judas, who by reafon ofthat, was afterwards firnamed Macha-
beus, being to fight with the jews aga.in{kj4ntiochus Eupator received from an
angel a notable fign, odd, in the virtue ofwhich they firft flew i i-,ooo, with an
infinite number of elephants, then again 35,000 oftheir enemies : for that fign
did reprefent the name of Jehovah and was a memorable emblem ofthe name
,
of feventy-two letters by the equality of number and the expofition thereof
;
is rvrvo 6*0 TD3 'O, a e. who is there among thee ftrong as Jehovahf See
Plate, iig. F.
CHAP.
XVIII.
*
OF the bonds of spirits, and their adjurations, and castings OUT.
THE
bond by which fpirits are bound, befought, or caft out, are three
j
fome of them are taken from the elemental world, as when we adjure a
fpirit by any inferior and natural thing of affinity with or adverfe to them
inafmuch as we would call up or caft them out, as by fumigations offlowers,
herbs, animals,/now, ice, or by hell,fire andfiuch like -, and thefe alfo are often
mixtwith divine praifes, andbleffings, and confecrations, as appears in the fong
ofthe Three Children, and in the pfalm, Praifeye the Lord from the heavens,
and in the confecration and bleffing of thzpafichaltaper. This bond works
upon the fpirits by an apprehenfive virtue, under the account oflove orhatred,
inafmuch as the fpirits are prefent with, or favour, or abhor any thing that is
natural or againft nature, as thefe things themfelves love or hate one another.
The fecondbond is taken from the celeftial world, viz. when we adjure them
by their heaven, by the ftars, by their motions, rays, light, beauty, clearnefs,
excellency, fortitude, influenceand wonders, and fuch like and this bond works
K
2 upon63 THE CABALA OR', Book II.
J
upon fpirits by way ofadmonition and example. It hath alfo fome command^
efpecially upon the miniftering fpirits, and thofe who are of the loweft orders.
The third bond is from the intellectual and divine world, which is perfected by
religion that is to fay, when we fwear by the facraments, miracles, divine
;
names, lacred feals, and other myfteries of religion wherefore this bond is the
;
higheft ofall and the ftrongeft, working upon the fpirits by command and
power but this is to be obferved, that as after the univerfal Providence there
;
is a particular one, and after the univerfal foul, particular fouls fo, in the
;
hrft place, we invocate by the fuperior bonds, and by the names and powers
We
which rule the things, then by the inferior and the things themfelves.
muft know further, that by thefe bonds, not only fpirits, but alfo all creatures are
bound, as tempefts, burnings, floods, plagues, difeafes, force ofarms, and every
animal, by afliiming them, either by adjuration or deprecation, or benediction, as
in the charming offerpents befldes the natural and celeftial, by rehearfing out
;
ofthe myfteries and religion, the cure of the ferpent in terreftrial paradife, the
lifting up ofthe ferpent in the wuldernefs likewife by afluming that verfe of
;
the 91ft Pfalm, thouJJjalt walk upon the afp and the bafilijk, andfhalt treadupon
the lion a?id the dragon .
C H A P. XIX.
BY WHAT MEANS MAGICIANS AND NECROMANCERS CALL FORTH THE SOULS OF THE DEAD
BY the things which have been already fpoken it is manifeft, that fouls after
death do as yet love their body which they left, as thofe fouls do whofe bodies
want due burial or have left their bodies by violent death, and as yet wander
about their carcafles in a troubled and moift fpirit, being, as it were, allured by
fomething that hath an affinity with them, the means being known, by which,
in times paft, they were joined to their bodies, they may be eaflly called forth
andPart I. CEREMONIAL MAGIC. 6 9
m
and allured by the like vapours, liquors and favours, certain artificial lights
being alfo ufed, fongs, founds, and fuch like, which moves the imaginative and
fpiritual harmony of the foul; and facred invocations, and fuch like, as belong
to religion,'ought not to be nelgedted by reafqn of the portion of the rational
foul which is above nature..
Necromancy has its name becaufe it 'works on the bodies of the dead,
and gives anfwers by the ghofls and apparitions of the dead, and fub-
terraneous fpirits, alluring them into thecarcafles of the dead, by certain hel-
liffi charms, and infernal invocations, and. by deadly facrifices and wicked
oblations.
There are two kinds of necromancy : railing the carcafles, which is not
done without blood the other fciomancy, in which the calling up of the
;
ffiadow only fuffices. To conclude, it works all its experiments by the
carcafies of the flain and their bones and members, and what is from them ;
for there is in thefe things a fpiritual power friendly to them : . therefore
they eafily allure the flowing down of wicked fpirits, by reafon of the fimi-
litude and property ofevery familiar, by whom the necromancer, ftrengthened
by their help, can do much in human and terreftrial things, and kindle
unlawful lulls, caufe dreams, difeafes, hatred, and fuch like palfions to
;
which alfo they can confer the powers of the foul, which as yet being
involved in a moill and. turbid fpirit,. wandering about their call bodies, can
do the fame things that the wicked fpirits commit, feeing therefore they
experimentally find, that the wicked and impure fouls violently plucked from
their bodies, and of men not expiated, and wanting burial, do llray about
carcafles, and are drawn to them by affinity. The witches eafily abufe them
for effecting witchcraft, alluring thefe unhappy, fouls, by the appofition of
their body, or by the taking offome. part thereof, and compelling them by
their devililh charms, by entreating them by the deformed carcafles difperfed
through the wide fields, and the wandering lhadows of thofe who want bu-
rials, and by the gholls fent back from Acheron and the guells of hell,
,
whom
untimely death has precipitated into hell, and by the horrible defires
of the damned and proud devils, revengers of wickednefs. But he who
could7° THE CABALA OR, Book IL
j
could redore the fouls truly to their bodies, muft ffirft know what is the pro-
per nature of the foul from whence it went forth, with how many and how
great degrees of perfection it is replenifhed, with what intelligence it is
itrengthened, by what means diffufed into the body, by what harmony it ffiall
be compacted with it, what affinity it hath with God, with the intelligences,
with the heavens, elements, and all other things, whofe image and refem-
blance it holds. To conclude, by what influences the body may be knit
together again for the raffing of the dead, requires all thefe things which
belong not to men, but to God only, and to whom he will communicate
them.
CHAP.
XX.
OF PROPHETICAL DREAMS.
I CALL that a dream which proceeds either from the fpirit of the phan-
tafy and intelleCf united together, or by the illuftration of the agent intel-
lect above our fouls, or by the true revelation offome divine power in a quiet
and purified mind for by this our foul receives true oracles, and abundantly
yields prophecies to us for in dreams we feem both to afk queffions, and
;
learn to find them out alfo many doubtful things, many policies, many things
;
unknown, unwifhed for, and never attempted by our minds, are manifefted
to us in dreams alfo the reprefentation of things unknown, and unknown
:
places, appear to us and the images of men, both alive and dead, and of
;
things to come, are foretold and alfo things which at any time have hap-
;
pened are revealed, which we know not by any report. And thefe dreams
need not any art of interpretation, as thofe of which we have before fpoken,
which belong to divination, not to foreknowledge j and it comes to pafs that
diey who fee dreams, for the mod part, underftand them not : for as to fee
dreamsCEREMONIAL MAGIC*
Part I.' 7*
dreams is from the ftrength of imagination , fo to underhand them is from the
ftrength of the underftanding. They, therefore, whofe intelledt being over-
whelmed by too much commerce ofthe flefh is in a dead fleep, or its imagi-
native or phantaftic power or fpirit is too dull and unpolifhed, that it cannot
receive the fpecies and reprefentation which flow from the fuperior intellect
j
this man, I fay, is altogether unfit for the receiving of dreams and prophe-
fying by them.
Therefore it is neceffary that he who would receive true dreams fhould
keep a pure undifturbed, and an undifquieted imaginative fpirit, and fo com-
pofe it that it may be made worthy of the knowledge and government by
the mind and underftanding ; for fuch a fpirit is moft fit for prophefying, and
is a moft clear glafs of all the images which flow (every where) from all
things. When therefore we are found in body, not difturbed in mind, our
intellect not dulled by meats and drinks, not fad through poverty, not pro-
voked through luft, not incited bv any vice, not ftirred up by wrath or
anger, not being irreligioufly and prophanely inclined, not given to levity,
not loft in drunkennefs, but chaftely going to bed, fall afleep then our
;
pure and divine foul, being free from all the evils above recited, and feparated
from all hurtful thoughts, and now freed by dreaming, is endowed with
,
this divine fpirit as an inllrument, and doth receive thofe beams and
reprefentations which are darted down,, as it were, and fhine forth
from the Divine Mind into itfelf ; and, as it were in a deifying glafs, it
does more certain, more clear and efficacioufly behold all things than by the
vulgar inquiry of the intelledt, and by the difcourfe of reafon. The divine
powers inftrudting the foul, being invited to their fociety by the opportu-
nity of the no&urnal folitarinefs, neither, will that genius be wanting to him
when he is awake, which rules all his actions.
Whofoever therefore, by quiet and religious meditation, and by a diet
temperate and moderate according to nature, preferves his fpirit pure fhall
very much prepare himfelf, and by this means become (in a degree) divine
and knowing all things, juftly merits the fame. But whofoever, on the
contrary, languifhes with a fantaftic fpirit, he receives not perfpicuous and
diftant/
72 THE CABALA, ETC. Book II.
diftant vifions but even as the divine fight, by reafon of its vifion, being
;
weakened and impaired, judges confufedly and indiftin&ly, fo alfo when we
are overcome with wine and drunkennefs, then our fpirit, being opprefled with
noxious vapours (as a troubled water is apt to appear in various forms) is de-
ceived, and waxes dull therefore thofe who would receive oracles by dreams,
;
and thofe oracles true and certain, I would advife him to abftain one whole
day from meat, and three days from wine or any ftrong liquors, and drink no-
thing but pure water for, to fober and religious minds, the pure fpirits are
;
adherent, but fly thofe who are drowned in drunkennefs and furfeiting.
Although impure fpirits do very often adminifler notable fecrets to thofe who
are apparently befotted with wine or liquors yet all fuch communications are
;
to be contemned and avoided.
But there are four kinds of true dreams, viz. the firft, matutine , i. e.
between fleeping and waking the fecond that which one fees concerning ano-
;
ther ; the third, that whofe interpretation is fhewn to the fame dreamer in the
nodturnal vifion and, laftly, the fourth, that which is repeated to the fame
;
dreamerin the nodturnal vifion.
END .OF PART -FIRST-
THE
t • * ' .
i;
THE PERFECTION AND KEY
OF
THE
CABALA,
O R
CEREMONIAL
MAGIC.
BOOK PART
II. II.
jN
this laft hook, which we have made the Perfection and Key ofall that
A
has been written, we have given thee the whole and entire pradtice of
Ceremonial Magic, fhewing what is to be done every hour of the day
fo that as by reading what we have heretofore written, thou /halt contem-
plate in theory, here thou fhalt be made perfect by experiment and practice :
for in this Key you may behold, as in a mirror, the diitindt functions of the
fpirits, and how they are to be drawn into communication in all places, fea-
fons, and times.
This then is to be known, that the names of the intelligent prefidents
ofevery one ofthe planets are conftituted after this manner that is to fay,
;
by collecting together the letters out of the figures of the world from the
rifing of the body of the planet, according to the fuccefiion of the figns
through the feveral degrees, and out of the feveral degrees, from the afpedts
of the planet himfelf, the calculation being made from the degree of the af-
cendant.
Book II. L In;
71- THE KEY TO Book IT.
In like manner are conflicted the names of the princes of the evil fpirits ?
they are taken under all the planets of the prefidents in a retrograde order,
the projection being made contrary to the fucceffion of the figns, from the
beginning of the feventh houfe. Now the name of the fupreme and highefl
intelligence, which many fuppofe to be the foul of the world, is colleCled.
out of the four cardinal points of the figure of the world, after the manner
already delivered and by the oppofite and contrary way is known the name
of the great demon or evil fpirit, upon the four cadent angles,
.
In like manner you fhall underfland the names of the great prefidential
fpirits ruling in the air, from the four angles of the fuccedent houfes, fo as-
to obtain the names of the good fpirits : the calculation is to be made accord-
ing to the fucceffion of the figns, beginning from the degree of the afcend-
ant, and to attain the names of the evil fpirits by working the contrary
way.
You muft alfo obferve, that the names of the evil fpirits are extracted as
well from the names of the good fpirits as of the evil : fo, notwithflanding, •
that if we enter the table with the name of a good fpirit of the fecond order,
the name of the evil fhall be extracted from the order of princes and go-
vernors but if we enter the table with the name of a good fpirit of the
;
third order, or with the name of an evil fpirit, a governor, after what man-
ner foever they are extracted, whether by this table or from a celeftial
figure, the names which do proceed from hence fhall be the names of the
evil fpirits, the minifters of the inferior order.
It is further to be noted, that as often as we enter this table with the good
fpirits of the fecond order, the names extraCled are of the fecond order
and if under them we extraCl the name of an evil fpirit, he is of the fuperior.
order of the governors. The fame order is, if we enter with the name ofan
evil fpirit of the fuperior,. If therefore we enter this table with the names of
the fpirits of the third order, or with the names of the miniftering fpirits, as
well of the good fpirits as ofthe evil, the names extraCled fhall be the names
of the miniftering fpirits ofthe inferior order,.
ButPart II CEREMONIAL MAGIC. 75
But many magicians, men of no fmall authority, will have the tables of
this kind to be extended with Latin letters fp that by the fame tables alfo,
;
out of the name ofany office or effect, might be found out the name of any
fpirit, as well good as evil, by the fame manner which is above delivered, by
taking the name of the office or of the effefl in the column of letters, in their
own line, under their own flar. And of this practice Lrifmegijius is a great
author, who delivered this kind of calculation in Egyptian letters not im-
:
properly alfo may they be referred to the letters of other tongues, for the
reafon affigned to the ligns for truly he only is extant of all men who
;
have treated concerning the attaining to the names of fpirits.
Therefore the force,fecrecy, and power in what manner the facred names
,
offpirits are truely and rightly found out, confifleth in the difpoling of vowels,
which make the name ofa fpirit, and wherewith is conflituted the true name
Now
and right word. this art is thus perfected and brought to pafs. Firfl,
we are to take heed to placing the vowels of the letters, which are found by
the calculation of the celeflial figure, to find the names of the fpirits of the
fecond order, prefidents and governors : and this, in the good fpirits, is thus
brought to effect, by confidering the Ears which do conflitute and make the
letters, and by placing them according to their order. Firfl, let the degree
of the eleventh houfe be fubtradled from the degree of that flar which is firfl
in order, and that which remains thereof, let it be projected from the degree
of the afcendant ; and where the number ends, there is part of the vowel of
the firfb letter.
Begin therefore to calculate the vowels of thefe letters according to their
number and order, and the vowel which falls in the place ofthe flar, which
is the firfb in order, the fame vowel is attributed to the firfb letter ; then af-
terwards thou ffialt find the part of the fecond letter, by fubtradling the
degree of a flar, which is the fecond in order from . the firfl flar j
and that which remains caft from the afcendant. And this is the part
from which you ffiall begin the calculation of vowels ; and that vowel
which falls upon the fecond flar the fame is the vowel of the fecond letter :
and fo confequently thou mayefl fearch out the vowels ofthe following letters
L 2 by76 THE KEY TO Book' II.
by always, fubtraCting the degree ofthe following flar from the degree of the
Bar next preceding and going before. And, likewife, all calculations and nu-
merations in the names of the good fpirits ought to be made according to the
iucceffion of the figns. And whereas in calculating the names of the evil
fpirits, the names ofthe good lpirits are taken from the degree of the eleventh
houfej in thefe ought to be taken the degree ofthe twelfth houfe. And all nu-
merations and calculations may be made with the fucceffion of the figns, by
taking the beginning from the degree ofthe tenth houfe.
But in all extractions by tables, the vowels arc placed after another manner*
In the firfl place, is taken the certain number of letters, making the name
itfelf, and is thus numbered from the beginning ofthecolumn of the firfl letter,
or w'hereupon the name is extracted ; and the letter on which this num-
ber falleth is referred to the firfl letter of the name extracted, by taking the
diftance of the one from the other, according to the order of the alphabet.
But the number of that diftance is projected from the beginning of that
column, and where it ends there is part ofthe firft vowel ; from thence thou
fhalt calculate the vowels themfelves, in their own number and order in the
fame column and the vowel which fhall fall upon the firft letter of a name,
;
the fame fhall be attributed to that name.
Now thou fhalt find the following vowels, by taking the diftance from the
preceding vowel to the following, and fo confequently according to the fuccef-
fion of the alphabet and the number of that diftance is to be numbered
;
from the beginning of his own column, and where he fhall ceafe, there is part
of the vowel fought after. From thence therefore muft you calculate the
vowels, as we have above faid, and thofe vowels which fhall fall upon your
own letters, are to be attributed to them. If therefore any vowel fhould hap-
pen to fall upon a vowel, the former muft give place to the latter : and this
you are to underhand only of the good fpirits. In the evil fpirits likewife you
may proceed in the fame way except only that you make the numerations
>
after a contrary and backward order, contrary to the fucceffion of the
alphabet, and contrary to the order of the colums (that is to fay)
afcending.
TheCEREMONIAL MAGIC.
I^art lit 77
The name of good angels, and of every man, which we have before"taught
how to find out, according to that manner, is of no little authority, nor of a
meanfoundation. But now we will give thee fome otherways illuftrated with
no vain reafons. One whereof is by taking in the nativity the five places
of Hylech which being noted, the characters of the letters are projected in
;
their order and number, beginning from Aries and thofe letters which fall
,
upon the degrees of the faid places, according to their order and dignity
difpofed and afpeCted, make the name ofan angel.
There is alfo another way wherein they take Almutel , which is the ruling
and governing ftar over the aforefaid five places, and the projection is to be
made from the degree ofthe afcendant; which is done by gathering together
the letters falling upon Almutel, which being placed in order, according
to their dignity, make the name ofan angel. There is likewife another way
ufed, and very much had in obfervation from the Egyptians, by making cal-
culations from the degree of the afcendant, and by gathering together the let-
ters according to the Almutel of the eleventh houfe which houfe they call a
;
good demon which being placed according to their dignities, the names of
;
the angels are conftitutedo -
Now the names of the evil angels are known after the like manner, except
only that the projections muft be performed contrary to the courfe and order of
the fucceflion of the figns ; fo that in feeking the names ofgood fpirits, we
are to calculate from the beginning ofAries contrariwife, in attaining the
;
names of evil, we ought to account from the beginning of Libra. And
whereas, in the good fpirits, we numberfrom the degree ofthe afcendant con-*
;
trariety, in the evil, we muft calculate from the degree of the feventh houfe.
Bupaccording to the Egyptians, the name ofthis angel is collected accord-
ing to the Almutel ofthe twelfth houfe, which they call an evil fpirit. Now all
thofe rites, which are elfewhere already by us delivered in this Book, may
be made by the characters ofany language. In all which (as we have faid be-
fore) there is a myftical and divine number, order and figure, from whence it
comes to pafs, that the fame fpirit may be called by divers names but others
j8
;
7 THE KEY TO Book IL
are difcovered from the name of the fpirit himfelf, ofthe good or evil, by tables
formed to this purpofe.
Now thefe celeftial characters do confift of lines and heads. The heads are
fix, according to the fix magnitudes of the liars, whereunto the planets
likewife are reduced. The firft magnitude holds a ftar with the fun or a crofs
the fecond, with Jupiter, a circular point the third, with Saturn, a femicircle,
;
a triangle, either crooked, round, or acute the fourth, with a Mars, a
;
little ftroke penetrating the line, either fquare, ftraight or oblique the fifth,
;
with Venus and Mercury, a little ftroke or point with a tail afcending or
defending the fixth, with the moon, a point made black, all which you may
;
fee in the annexed Plate. The heads then being pofited according to the
fite of the ftars of the figure of heaven, then the lines are to be drawn out
according to the congruency or agreement of their natures. And this you are
to underftand of the fixed ftars. But in the ereCting of the planets, the lines
are drawn out, the heads being pofited according to their courfe and nature
—
among themfelves. See the Plate, No. i.
So when a character is to be found, of any celeftial image afcending in any
degree or face ofa fign, which confifts of ftars of the fame magnitude and
nature, then the number of thefe ftars being pofited according to their place
and order, the lines are drawn after the fimilitude of the image fignified,
as copioufiy as the fame can be done.
But the characters which are extracted according to the name of a fpirit
are compofed by the table following, by giving to every letter that name
which agrees to him out of the table and although it may appear ealy to
;
thofe that apprehend it, yet there is no fmall difficulty herein ; towit, when the
letter ofa name falls upon the line of letters or figures, that we may know
which figure or which letter is to be taken. And this may thus be known; ifa
letter falls upon the line ofletters; confider ofwhat number this letter may be
in the order of the name, as the fecond or the third then how many letters
;
that name contains, as five or feven and multiply thefe numbers one after
;
another by themfelves, and treble the produCt then caft the whole (being
;
addedPart If, CEREMONIAL MAGIC. 79
added together) from the beginning of the letters according to the fucceffion
ofthe alphabet ; and the letter upon which that number (hall happen to fall,
ought to be placed for a character of that fpirit. But ifany letter ofa name
fall upon the line offigures, it is thus wrought : take the number how many
this letter is in the orderof the name, and let it be multiplied by the number of
which this letter is in the order of the alphabet ; and, being added together,
divide it by nine, and the remainder will fliew the figure or number to be pla-
ced in the character, and this may be put either in a geometrical or arithme-
trical figure of number which, notwithftanding, ought not to exceed the
; —
number of nine, or nine angels. See the Plate, No. z..
But the characters which are underftood bj the revelations of fpirits
take their virtue from thence, becaufe they are, as it were, certain hidden
leals, making the harmony of fome divinity : either they are figns of a
covenant entered into, and ofa promifed or plighted faith', or ofobedience.
And thofe characters cannot by any other means be found out.
Befides thefe characters there are certain familiar figures and images of
evil fpirits, under which forms-they are wont to appear, and yield obedience to
thofe who invoke them. And all thefe characters or images may be feen inthe
confiderations ofeach day’s bufinefs, according to the courfe of the letters con-
ffituting the namesof fpirits themfelves ; fo that if in any letter there is found
more than the name of one fpirit, his image holds the pre-eminence, the
others imparting their own orders ; fo they which are of the firft order, to them
is attributed the head, the upper part of the body, according to their own
figure ; thofe which are lowed poffefs the thighs a'nd feet ; fo likewife the-
middle letters do attribute like to themfelves the middle parts of the body, to
give the parts that fit ; but if there happen any contrariety, that letter which
is the ftrongeft in the number fhall bear rule ; arid if they are equal they all
impart equal things. Moreover ifany name fhall obtain anynotable character
or inflrument out of the table, he fhall likewife have the fame character in-
the image.
We
may alfo attain to the knowledge of the dignities of the evil fpirits,
by the fame tables ofcharacters and images : for upon whatfoever fpirit falls
any,8o THE KEY TO Book
II.
any excellent fign or inftrument out of the table of charadters, he poiTefies
that dignity. As if there fhould be a crown, it thews a kingly dignity if a
;
creft or plume, a dukedom if a horn, a county : if without thefe there be
a fcepter, fword, or forked inftrument, it thews rule and authority. Like-
wife out of the table of images you fhall find them who bear the chiefkingly
dignity: from the crown judge dignity and from the inftruments, rule and
;
authority.
Lathy, they which bear a human thape and figure have a greater dig-
nity than thofe which appear under the forms and images of beatis. They
likewife who ride do excel them which appear on foot. And thus, accord-
ing to all their commixtures, you may judge the dignity and excellency of
fpirits, one before another. Moreover, you mutl understand that the fpi-
rits of the inferior order, of what dignity foever, they are always fubjedt to
the fpirits ofthe fuperior order ; likewife that it is not incongruent for their
kings and dukes to be fubjedt and minifter to the prefidents of the fuperior
order.
O/Magic Pentacles and their Composition.
WE
now proceed to fpeak of the holy and facred [Pentacles and Seals.
For thefe pentacles are certain holy figns and charadters, preferving us from
evil chances and events, helping and affifting us .to bind, exterminate, and
drive away evil fpirits, alluring the good fpirits, and reconciling them to us.
Thefe pentacles .confift either of charadters of good fpirits of the fuperior
order, or of facred pidtures ofholy letters or revelations, with apt and proper
verficles, which are compofed either of geometrical figures and holy names of
God, according to the courfe and manner of many of them, or they are
compounded of all of them, or many of them mixed. The charadters which
are ufeful for us to conftitute and make the pentacles are the charadters of
thePart II. CEREMONIAL MAGIC. 8 r
thegood Jfpirits, chiefly ofthe good fpirits ofthe firft and fecond order, and
fbmetimes of the third order. Thefe kind of characters are efpecially to
be named holy.
Whatfoever characters ofthis kind are to be inftituted, we mu ft draw about
him a double circle, wherein we muft write the name of his angel and
;
if we will add fome divine name congruent with his fpirit and office, it
will be of greater force and efficacy and if we draw about him any angu-
;
lar figure, according to the manner of his numbers that is lawful to be done.
But the holy pictures which make the pentacles are they which every where
are delivered to us in the prophets and facred writings, both in the Old and
New Teftaments ev^n as the figure of the ferpent hanging on the crofs,
;
and fuch like whereof many may be found in the vifions of the prophets,,
3
as in Ifaiah, Daniel, Efdras, and others, and likewife in the revelations of
the Apocalypfe. And we have before fpoken of them in our Firft Part,
where we have made mention of holy things, therefore where any picture
is pofited ofany of thefe holy images, let the circle be drawn round it on each
fide; wherein let there be written fome divine name that is apt and con-
formed to the effect of that figure, or elfe there may be written around
,
it fome verficle taken out ofpart of the body of holy Scripture, which may
afcertain or deprecate the defired effedt.
If a pentacle were to be made to gain a vidtory, or revenge againft one’s
enemies, as well vifible as invifible, the figure may be taken out of the
Second Book of the Maccabees that is to fay, a hand holding a golden fword
;
drawn, about which let there be written the verficle there contained, to wit,
w
take the holy fword, the gtft ofGod, herewith thou fhaltfay the adverfaries
of my people Ifrael. Or elfe there may be written about a verficle of the
fifth Pfalm ; in this is thefrength ofthy arm: before thyface there is death ;
or fome other fuch like verficle. But if you will write a divine name about
the figure, then let fome name be taken that fignifies fear a fword, wrath,
;
the revenge of God, or fome fuch like name congruent and agreeing with
the effect defired. And if there fhall be written any angular figure, let
it be taken according to the rule ofthe numbers, as we have taught where we
M
Book II. have;
82 THE KEY TG Book
II.
have treated of numbers, and the like operations. And of this fort there are
two pentacles of fublime virtue and great power, very ufeful and neceflary to
be ufed in the confecration of experiments and fpirits ; one whereof is that in
the firft chapter of the Apocalypfe, to wit, a figure of the majefty of God
fitting upon a throne, having in his mouth a two-edged fword, as there is
defcribed ; about which let there be written, “ I am Alpha and Omega, the
Beginning and the End, which is, and which was, and which is to come,
the Almighty. I am the Firft and the Lafl, who am living, and was dead,
and behold I live for ever and ever and I have the keys of death and
j
hell.” Then there {hall be writte — n about it thefe three verficles :
Munda Deus virtuti tuse, &c. Give commandment O God, to thyfrength
,
confirm , O God, thyjlrength in us. Let them be as dufi befiore theface ofthe
wind : and let the angel ofthe Lordfcatter them. Let all their ways be dark-
nefs and uncertain: and let the angelofthe Lordperfecute them.
Moreover, let there be written about it the ten general names, which are
El, Elohim Elohe, Zebaoth Elion Efcerchie Adonay jab, Letragrammaton
, , , , , ,
Saday
There is another pentacle, the figure whereof is like a lamb fain , having
feven eyes andfeven horns \ and under hisfeet a bookfealed withfevenfeals, as it
is in the fifth chapter of the Apocalypfe. Round about let be written this ver-
ficle, behold the lion hath overcome ofthe tribe ofJudah, the root ofDavid. I
will open the book and unloofe the fevenfeals thereof. And another verficle, I
faw Satan like lightningfalldownfrom heaven. Behold Ihave givenyoupower
to tread uponferpents andfcorpions and over all the power ofyour enemies and
, ,
nothingfall be able to hurtyou. And let there be alfo written about it the ten
general names as aforefaid.
But thofe pentacles which are thus made of figures and names, let them
keep this order j for when any figure is pofited, conformable to any number,
to produce any certain effect or virtue, there muft be written thereupon, in all
the feveral angles, fome divine name obtaining the force and efficacy of the
thing defired ; yet fo neverthelefs, that the name which is of this fort do con-
fift ofjuft fo many letters as the figure may conftitute a number ; or of fo
manyCEREMONIAL MAGIC.
83
many letters of a name, as, joined together among themfelves, may make the
number of a figure or by any number which may be divided without any
;
fiiperfluity or diminution. Now fuch a name being found, whether it be only
©ne name or more, or divers names, it is to be written in all the feveral
angles in the figure but in the middle of the figure, let the revolution
j
©f the name be wholly and totally placed, or at leaft principally.
We
likewife conftitute pentacles by making the revolution of fome kind of
name,, in a fquare table, and by drawing about it a fingle or double circle,
and writing therein fome holy verficle competent and befitting this name, or
from which that name is extracted.. And this is the way of making the
pentacles, according to their feveral diftind: forms and fafhions,which we may,
if we pleafe, either multiply or commix together by courfe among them-
felves,- to work the greater efficacy, extenfion and enlargement of force and
virtue-.
As, ifa deprecation would be made for the overthrow and deftrudtion of
one’s enemies, we areto mind, and call to remembrance how God deftroyed the
face ofthe whole earth in the deluge of waters* and the definition of Sodom
and Gomorrah by raining down fire and brimftone; likewife, how God over-
,
threw Pharoah and his hoft in the Red Sea and to call to mind ifany other
;
maledidion or curfe be found in holy writ. And thus in things of the like
fort. So likewife in deprecating and praying againfr perils and dangers of
_
waters, we ought to call to remembrance the faving ofNoah in the deluge of
waters, the paffing of the children ofIfraelthrough the Red Sea and alfo we
;
are to mind how Chrift walked on the waters, and how he faved the fhip in
dangerfrom beingcaft away bythe tempeft and howhecommanded the winds
;
and the waves, and they obeyed him and alfo, that he drew Peter out of the
;
water, being in danger of drowning, and the like.. And, lafily, with thefe we
invoke and call upon fome certain holy names of God * to wit, fuch as are
fignificative to accomplish our defire, and. accommodated to the defired
effedt
i
as ifit be to overthrow enemies, we are to invoke and call upon names
of'wrath, revenge,fear,jujiice, andfortitudeofGod and if we would avoid and
M ; i
2 efcape;
<
s4 the key to Book IL
efcape any evil or danger, we then call upon the names ofmercy, defence, &U
vation, fortitude, goodnefs, and fuch like names of God. When likewife
we pray to God that he would grant us our defires, we are likewife to inter-
mix therewith the name of fome good fpirit, whether one only, or more,
whofe office it is to execute our defires; and fometimes alfo we require
fome evil fpirit to reftrain or compel, whofe name likewife we intermingle,
and that rightly, efpecially if it be to execute any evil work as revenge pu-
; ,
nifhmcnt or deflruBion.
,
Furthermore, if there be any verficle in the Pfalms, or any other part ofthe
holy Scripture that fhall feem congruent and agreeable to our defire, the fame
is to be mingled with our prayers. Now, after prayer has been made to
God, it is expedient afterwards to make an oration to that executioner, whom,
in our precedent prayer to God, we have defired fhould adminifter to us,
whether one or more, or whether he be an angel, or ftar, or foul, or any ofthe
noble angels. But this kind of oration ought to be compofed according
to the rules which we have delivered in the former part of our work,
where we have treated of the manner of the compofition of enchantments*
&c.
You may know farther, that thefe kind of bonds have a threefold difference
for the firft bond is when we conjure by natural things ; the fecond is com-
pounded of religious myfteries, by facraments, miracles, and things of this
fort and the third is conftituted by divine names and holy feals. With
;
thefe kind of bonds we may bind not only fpirits, but alfo other creatures
whatfoever, as animals , tempejls , burnings,floods ofwaters , theforce andpower
of arms. Alfo we ufe thefe bonds aforefaid, not only by conjuration, but
fometimes alfo ufing the means of deprecation and benediction. Moreover,
conduces much to this purpofe to join fome fentence of holy Scripture,
it
if any (hall be found convenient thereto, as in the conjuration of ferpents, by
commemorating the curfe of the ferpent in the earthly paradife, and the fetting
up the ferpent in the wildernefs ; and further, adding that verficle, thoufloat
walk upon the and the bafllijk &c. Superftition is alfo of much prove-
aflp ,;
Tart1L CEREMONIAL MAGIC. 85
lancy herein, by the tranflation of fome facramental rites, to bind thatwhich
we intend to hinder; as, the rites ofexcommunication, offepulchres, funerals,
buryings,-andthe like fort.
Of the Confecration ofall magical Infiruments and Materials which are ufed in.
Art
this .
THE
virtue ofconfecrations chiefly conftfts in two things, viz. the power
of the perfon confecrating, and the virtueofthe prayer by which the confecra-
xion is made.
,
For in the perfon confecrating, there is required firmnefs, conftancy, and
holinefs of life; and that the confecrator himfelf fhall, with a firm and
undubitable faith, believe the virtue, power, and effedt thereof.
Then hvthe prayer by which the confecration is made it derives its virtue
either from divineinfpiration, or elfe by compofing it from fundry places in the
holy Scriptures, in the commemoration of fome*of the wonderful miracles
ofGod, effedts, promifes, facraments and facramental things, ofwhich we have
abundance in hojy writ.
There muft Hkewife be ufed the invocation of divine names, that are figni-
ficative of the work in hand ; likewife a fandtifying and expiation which is
wrought by fprinkling withholy water,undtions with holy oil, and odoriferous
fuffumigations. Therefore in every confecration there is generally ufed a be-
nedidtion and confecration of water, earth, oil, fire, and faffumigat-ions, &c.
with confecrated wax-lights on lamps burning; for without lights no con-
fecration is duly performed. You mull therefore particularly obferve this,
that when any thing (which we call prophane) is to be ufed, in which there
is any defilement or pollution, it muft, lirft of all, be purified by an Exorcifm
compofed folely for that purpofe, which ought to precede the confecration
whichu
THE KEY TO Book
IT.
which things Being fo made pure are moft apt to receive the influences
We
of the divine virtue. muft alfo obferve that at the end of any con-
fecration after the prayer is rightly performed, as we have mentioned; the-
operator ought to blefs the thing' confecrated, by Breathing out fome
fentence with divine virtue and power of the prefent confecration, with
a commemoration of his virtue and authority, that fo it may be the more
duly performed, and with an earned: and attentive mind. Now I fhall
mention here fome examples, that, by thefe, a path may be made to the
whole perfection thereof.
Water.
The Confecration o/"
SO in the confecration of water, we muft commemorate that God has
placed the firmament in the midft: of the .waters, and likewife that God
placed the fountain of waters in the earthly paradife, from whence fprang
four holy rivers that watered the whole earth likewife we are to remember
;
that God caufed the waters to be an inftrument ofhis juftice in deftroying the
giants, by bringing on the deluge which covered the face ofthe whole earth
and in the overthrow of the hoft of Pharoah in the Red Sea, and that God
led the children of Ifrael through on dry land, and through the midft: of the
river Jordan, and likewife his marvelloufly drawing waterout ofthe ftony rock
in the wildernefs; and that, at the prayer ofSamfon, he caufed water to flow
out of the jaw-bone of an afs and likewife that God has made water the
;
inftrument of his mercy and lalvation for the expiation of original fin alfo
;
that Chrift: was baptized in the river Jordan, and hath thereby fandtified and
cleanfed the waters. Likewife certain divine names are to be invocated
which are conformable hereto; as, that God is a living fountain, living
water, the fountain ofmercy, and names of the like fort.
ConfecrationPart II. CEREMONIAL MAGIC. ^7
Confecration ofFire.
AND
likewlfe, in the confecration of fire, we are to commemorate that
God hath created the fire to be an inftrument to execute his juftice, for
punifhment, vengeance, and the expiation of fins alfo, when God comes
;
to judge the world that he will command a conflagration of fire to go before
him; likewife we are to mention that God appeared to Mofes in a
burning bufh and alfo how he went before the children of Ifrael in a pillar
;
offire and that nothing can be duly offered, fandtified, or facrificed, without
;
fire and how that God inftituted fire to be kept in continually in the
;
tabernacle ofthe covenant and how miraculoufly he re-kindled the fame, be-
;
ing extindt, and preferved it elfewhere from going out being hidden under
the waters and things ofthis fort likewife the names ofGod are to be called
; ;
upon which are confonant to this as we read in the law and prophets, that
;
God is a comfuming fire ; and likewife if there is any divine names which fig-
nify fire, as the glory of God, the^ light ofGod, the fplendor and brightnefs of
God, &c„
The Confecration ofOil,
AND likewife in the confecration of oil and perfumes we are to men-
tion fuch things as are confonant to this purpofe, as of the holy anointing oil,
mentioned in Exodus, and divine names fignificant thereunto; fuch as is
the name Chrift, which fignifies anointed and whatever myfteries there are
;
relative to oil in the Scriptures, as the two olive-trees diftilling holy oil
into the lamps that burn before the face of God, mentioned in Reve-
lations.
Ofthe Benediftion ^/'Lights, Lamps, Wax, &c.
NOW,
the blefling of the lights, lamps, wax, &c. is taken from the fire,
and whatever contains the fubftance of the flame, and whatever fimilitudes"
are in the myfteries, as the feven candlefticks which burn before the face of
God.
Therefore,
88 t THE KEY TO Book XI*
Therefore we have here given the manner of compofing the confecrations,
which firft of all are neceflary to be ufed in every kind of ceremony, and ought
toprecede every experiment orwork, and without which nothing in magic rites-
can be duly performed.
In the next place, we will fhew thee the confecration ofplaces inflruments
,
and the like things.
The Confecration of Places, Ground, Circle, &c.
THEREFORE
when you would confecrate any place or circle, you fhoulcL
take the prayer of Solomon ufed in the dedication and confecration of the
temple you muft likewife blefs the place by fprinkling with holy water and
;
with fuffumigations, and commemorate in the benediction holy myfteries
$
fuch as thefe, the fanCtification of the throne of God, of Mount Sinai,
of the tabernacle of the covenant, of the holy of holies, of the temple of
Jerufalem alio the fandlification of Mount Golgotha, by the crucifixion of
:
Chrift; the fanCtification of the temple of Chrift of Mount Tabor, by the
;
transfiguration and afcenfion ofChrift, &c. And by invocating all divine names
which are fignificant to this , fuch as the place of God, the throne of God,
the chair of God, the tabernacle of God, the altar of God, the habitation of
God, and the like divine names of this fort, which are to be written about the
circle, or place to be confecrated.
And, in the confecration of inftruments, and every other thing that is
ufed in this art, you muft proceed after the fame manner, by fprinkling
with holy water the fame, by fumigation, by anointing with holy oil, fealing it
with fomfe holy feal, and blefling it with prayer, and by commemorating holy
things out of the facred Scriptures, collecting divine names which are agreea-
ble to the things to be confecrated as for example, in the confecration of the
;
fword we are to remember in the gofpel, “he that hath two coats,” &c.
and that in the fecond of the Maccabees, it is faid that a fword was divinely and
miraculoufly fent to Judas Maccabeus and if there is any thing of the like in
;
the prophets, as “ take unto you two-edged fwords,” &c, And you fhall
alfo*Tart II. CEREMONIAL MAGIC. 89
alfo, in the fame manner, confecrate experiments and books, and whatever of
the like nature, as writings, pictures, &c. by fprinkling, perfuming, anointing,
fealing, bleffing, with holy commemorations, and calling to remembrance the
fanCtification of myfteries as the table ofthe ten commandments, which were
;
delivered to Mofes by God in mount Sinai, the fanCtification of the Old
and New Teftaments, and likewife of the law, prophets, and Scriptures,
which were promulgated by the Holy Ghoft and again, there are to be men-
:
tioned fuch divine names as are convenient to this as thefe are, viz. the
;
teftament of God, the book of God, the book of life, the knowledge of
*God, the wifdom of God, and the like. And with fuch kind of rites as
thefe is the perfonal confecration performed.
There are befide thefe another rite of confecration of great power and
efficacy ; and this is one of the kinds of fuperftition, viz. when the rite of
confecration or collection ofany facrament in the church is transferred to that
thing which we would confecrate.
It muft be noted that vows , oblations , and facrifices , have the power of
confecration alfo, as well real as perfonal ; and they are, as it were, certain
conventions between thofe names with which they are made and us who
make them, ftrongly cleaving to our delire and wilhed effeCts, as when
we facrifice with certain names, or things ; as fumigations, unCtions, rings,
images, mirrors and fome things lefs material, as characters, feals, pentacles,
;
enchantments, orations, pictures. Scriptures, of which we have largely fpoken
before.
Ofthe Invocation of Evil Spirits, andthe binding of and confraining of
them to appear .
NOW,
if thou art delirous of binding any fpirit to a ready obedience
to thee, we will Ihew you how a certain book may be made by which
they maybe invoked ; and this book is to be confecrated a book ofEvil Spirits,
ceremonioully to be compofed in their name and order, whereunto they bind
N
Book II. with9 ° THE KEY TO Book II:
with a certain holy oath, the ready and prefent obedience of the fpirit. This-
book is therefore to be made of the mod: pure and clean paper, which is
generally called virgin paper and this book mud: be infcribed after this man-
;
ner, viz. let there be drawn on the left fide of the book the image of
the fpirit, and on the right fide thereof his character, with the oath above it,,
containing the name of the fpirit, his dignity and place, with his office and
power. Yet many magicians do compofe this book otherwife, omitting
the characters and images ; but I think that it is much more efficacious not
to negleCt any thing above mentioned in the forms.
There is likewife to be obferved the circumftances ofplaces, times, hours,
according to the ffars which thefe fpirits are under, and are feen to agree to ;
with their fite, rite, and order, being applied.
Which book being fo written, is to be well bound, adorned, garniffied*
embellifhed and kept lecure, with regifters and feals, led: it fhould happen
after the confecration to open in fome part not defigned, and endanger the
operator. And, above all, let this book be kept as pure and reverent as
poffible for irreverance of mind, caufes it to lofe its virtue by pollution and
;
prophanation.
Now this facred book being thus compofed according, to the form and
manner we have delivered, we are to confecrate it after a two-fbldway>
the firft is, that all and dngularly each of the fpirits who are written in the.
book be called to the circle, according to the rites magical, which we have
before taught, and place the book which is to be confecrated in a triangle
on the outfide of the circle then read, in the prefence of the fpirits, ail
;
the oaths which are contained and written in that book then the book to be
;
confecrated being already'placed without the circle in a triangle there drawn,
compel all the fpirits to impofe their hands where their images and cha-
racters are drawn, and to confirm and confecrate the fame with a fpecial and
common oath. This being done, let the book be fhut and preferved as we
have fpoken before then licence the fpirits to depart according to due rite and
;
magical order.
There
•CEREMONIAL MAGIC.
Part II. 9I
There is another method extant among us of confecrating a general book of
fpirits which is more eafy, and ofas much efficacy to produce every efFedt, ex-
cept that in opening this book, the fpirits do not always appear vifible. And
this way is thus : let be made a book of fpirits, as we have before ffiewn, but
in the end thereof write invocations, bonds, and flrong conjurations, where-
with every fpirit may be bound then bind this book between two lamens or
;
tablesj and on the infide thereof draw or let be drawn two holy pentacles
of the divine Majefly, which we have before fet forth, out of the Apocalypfe.
Then let the firfl ofthem be placed in the beginning of the book, and the fe-
cond at the end ofthe fame.
This book being thus perfected, let it be brought, in a clear and fair night,
to a circle prepared in a crofs-way, according to the art which we have before
delivered ; and there, in the firfl place, the book is to be opened, and to
be confecrated according to the rites and ways which we have before
delivered concerning confecration, which being done, let all the fpirits be cal-
led which are written in the book, in their own order and place, conjuring
them thrice by the bonds defcribed in the book that they come to that
place within the fpace of three days, to affure their obedience and confirm
the fame, to the book fo to be confecrated then let the book be wrapped up
;
in a clean linen cloth, and bury it in the midfl of the circle, and flop the
hole fo as it may not be perceived or difcovered : the circle being deftroyed,
after you have licened the fpirits, depart before fun-rife and on the
;
third day, about the middle of the night, return and make the circle anew,
and on thy knees make prayer unto God, and give thanks to him and
let a precious perfume be made, open the hole in which you buried your book
and take it out, and fo let it be kept, not opening the fame. Then after
licenfing the fpirits in their order and deflroying the circle, depart before fun-
rife. And this is the lafl rite and manner of confecrating, profitable to what-
ever writings, experiments, &c. that diredl the fpirits, placing the fame
between two holy lamens or pentacles, as is, before mentioned.
But when the operator would work by the book thus confecrated he ffiould
do it in a fair and clear feafon, when the fpirits are leafl troubled and let him
N j
2 turn92 THE KEY TO Book If.
turn himfelf towards the region of the fpirits then let him open the book un-
;
der a due regiiler, and likewife invoke the fpirits by their oaths there de«
fcribed and confirmed, and by the name of their character and image, to what-
ever purpofe you defire, and ifthere be need conjure them by the bonds placed
in the end of the book *. And having attained thy defired effedt licenfe them to
And now we proceed .0 fpeak ofthe Invocation ofgood as wellasbad Spirits
.
The good fpirits m-iy be invocated of us, or by us, divers ways, and they in
fundry ihapes and manners offer themfelves tous, for they openly fpeak to thofe
that watch, and do offer themfelves to our fight, or do infom us by dreams and
by oracle ofthofe things which we havea great defire to know. Whoever there-
fore would call any good fpirit to fpeak or appear in fight, he muff particu-
larly obferve two things one whereof is about the difpoftion of the invocant,
;
the other concerning thofe things which are outwardly to be adhibited
to the invocation for the conformity ofthe fpirit to be called.
It is necelfary therefore that the invocant religioufly difpofe himfelffor the
fpace of many days to fuch a myilery, and to conferve himfelf during the
time chaile, abilinent, and to abftradt himfelfas much as he can from all man-
ner of foreign and lecular bufinefs likewife he ihould obferve failing, as much
;
as ihall feem convenient to him, and let him daily, between fun-rifing and
letting, being clothed in pure white linen, feven times call upon God, and
make a deprecation to the angels to be called and invocated, according to the
rule which we have before taught. Now the number ofdays of failing and
preparation is commonly one month, i. e. the time ofa whole lunation. Now,
in the Cabala, we generally prepare ourfelves forty days before.
Now
concerning the place, it mull be chofen clean, pure, clofe, quiet, free
from all manner of noife, and not fubjedt to any Granger’s fight. This place
muil firil of all be exorcifed and conl'ecrated ; and let there be a table or altar
placed therein, covered with a clean white linen cloth, and fet towards the
eail : and on each fide thereof place two confecrated wax-lights burning, the
* I have given an example of the book of fpirits, by which you may fee the method in which the
charafters, &c< are placed as above defcribed. Sec the Plate.
flameJ
;
PartII. CEREMONIAL MAGIC.
93
flame thereofought not to go out all thefe days. In the middle ofthe altar
let there be placed lamens, or the holy paper we have before defcribed, co-
vered with fine linen, which is not to be opened until the end of the days of
confecration. You {hall alfo have in readinefs a preciousperfume, and a pure
anointing oil.—And let them both be kept confecrated. Then fet a fenfor on
the head of the altar, wherein you {halt kindle the holy fire and make a preci-
,
ous perfume every day that you pray.
Now
for your habit, you {hall have a long garment of white linen, clofe be-
fore and behind, which may come down quite over the feet, and gird yourfelf
about the loins with a girdle. You {hall likewife have a veil made of pure
white linen on which mu ft be wrote in a gilt lamen, thename Tetragrammaton
all which things are to be confecrated and fanftified in order. But you
muft not go into this holy place till it be firft wafhed and covered with a cloth
new and clean, and then you may enter, but with your feet naked and bare
;
and when you enter therein you fhall fprinkle with holy water, then make a
perfume upon the altarj and then on thy knees pray before the altar as we
have directed.
-
Now when the time is expired, on the laft day, you fhall faft more ftridrly
;
and falling on the day following, at the rifing ofthe fun, enter the holy place,
ufing the ceremonies before fpoken of, firft by fprinkling thyfelf, then, making
a perfume, you fhall fign the crofs with holy oil in the forehead, and anoint
your eyes, ufing prayer in all thefe confecrations. Then, open the lamen and
pray before the altar upon your knees ; and then an invocation may be made as
follows
:
^
Invocation of the Good Spirits.
IN the name of the blefied and Holy Trinity, I do defire thee, ftrong
and mighty angels (here name the fpirits you would have appear that if it be
tire divine will ofhim who is called Tetragrammaton, &c. the holy God, the
Father, that thou take upon thee fome lhape as beft becometh thy celeftial
nature, and appear to us vifibly here in this place, and anfwer our demands, in
as far as we {hall not tranfgrefs the bounds of the divine mercy and goodnefs.X
$ 4 the key T0 ' Book IL
by requeuing unlawful knowledge but that thou wilt gracioufty fhew us
;
what things are moft profitable for us to know and do to the glory and
honour of his divine Majefty who liveth and reigneth, world without end.
Amen.
—
Lord thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven make clean our hearts
within us, and take not thy holy fpirit from us. O Lord, by thy name we have
called them, fuffer them to adminifterunto us.
And that all things may work together for thy honour and glory, to whom
with thee, the Son and bleffed Spirit, be afcribed all might, majefty, and do-
minion, world without end. Amen.
—
Theparticular Form of the Lamen. (For the form of the Lamen fee
the Plate.)
THE
invocation being made, the good angels will appear unto you which
you delire, which you fhall entertain with a chafte communication, and licence
them to depart.
Now the lamen which is ufed to invoke any good fpirit mult be made after
the following manner either in metal conformable or in new wax mixed
:
with convenient fpices and colours or it may be made with pure white paper
;
with convenient colours, and the outward form ofit may be either fquare,
circular, or triangular, or ofthe like fort, according to the rule ofthe numbers,
in which there mult be written the divine names, as well general as fpecial.
And in the centre of the lamen draw a hexagon or character of fix corners, in
the middle thereofwrite the name and character ofthe Ear, or ofthe fpirit his
governor, to whom the good fpirit that is to be called is fubjeCt. And about
this character let there be placed fo many characters of five corners or
pentacles as the fpirits we would call together at once. But if we fhould
call only one, neverthelefs there mult be made four pentagons, wherein the
name of the fpirit or fpirits, with their characters, are to be written. Now
this lamen ought to be compofed when the moon is in her encreafe, on thofe
days and hours which agree to the fpirit and if we take a fortunate planet
;
therewith.Fart II. CEREMONIAL MAGIC.
therewith, it will be the better for the producing the effedt : which table or
lamen being rightly made in the manner we have fully defcribed, muft be con-
Iterated according to the rules above delivered:
And this is the way of making the general table or lamen for- the in-
vacating ofall fpirits whatever the form whereof you may fee in the Plates
;
ofpentacles, feals, and lamens.
Neverthelefs, we make fpecial tables congruent to every fpirit by the rule
which we have above fpoken concerning holy pentacles.
We
will yet declare unto you another rite more eafy to perform this thing
:
let the man who wiihes to receive an oracle from a fpirit be chafte, pure,
and fandtified then a place being chofen pure, clean, and covered every
;
where with clean and white linen, on the Lord’s-day in the new of the moon,
let him enter into that place clothed with white linen let him exorcife
;
the place, blefs it, and make a circle therein with a confecrated coal ; let there
be written in the outer part of the circle the names of the angels in the
;
inner part thereofwrite the mighty names of God and let be placed within
;
the circle, at the four parts ofthe world, the veffels for the perfumes. Then,
-
being wafhed and fafting, let him enter the place and pray towards the
eaft this whole Pfalm, “ Blefied are the undefiled- in the way,” &c. Pfalm
cxix. Then make a fumigation, and deprecate the angels by the faid divine
names, that they will appear unto you, and reveal or difeover that which you
fo earneftly defire and do this continually for fix days, wafhed and fail-
;
ing. On the feventh day, being wafhed and fafting, enter the circle, per-
fume it, and anoint thyfelf with holy oil upon the forehead, eyes, and in the
palms ofboth hands, and upon the feet then, with bended knees, fay the
;
Pfalm aforefaid, with divine and angelical names. Which being faid, arife,
’
and walk round the circle from Eaft to Weft, until thou fhalt be wearied with
a giddinefs of thy head and brain, then ftraitway fall down in the circle,
.
where thou mayeft reft, and thou wilt be wrapped up in an eeftafy and a
;
We
fpirit will appear and inform thee of all things neceffary to be known.
muft obferve alfo, that in the circle there ought to be four holy candles
burning:
96 THE KEY TO Book II.
burning at the four parts of the world, which ought not to want light for the
fpace of a week.
And the manner of fading is this : to abftain from all things having a life
of fenfe, and from thofe which do proceed from them, let him drink only-
pure running water ; neither is there any food or wine to be taken till the go-
ing down of the fun.
Let the perfume and the holy anointing oil be made as is fet forth in
Exodus, and other holy books of the Bible. It is alfo to be obferved, that
as often as he enters the circle he has upon his forehead a golden lamen,
upon which there muft be written the name Tetragrammaton, in the. manner
we have before mentioned.
Of Oracles by Dreams.
BUT natural things and their own commixtures do likewife belong unto
magicians, and we often ufe fuch to receive oracles from a fpirit by a dream
5
which are either by perfumes, undtions, meats, drinks, feals, rings, &c.
Now thofe who are defirous to receive oracles in or through a dream,
let him make himfelf a ring of the fun or Saturn for this purpofe. There
are likewife images of dreams, which, being put under the head when he
goes to deep, doth effectually give true dreams of whatever the mind
hath before determined or confulted upon, the practice of which is as
follows
Thou fhalt make an image of the fun, the figure whereof muft be, a
man lleeping upon the bofom ofan angel, which thou fhalt make when Leo
afcends, the fun being in the ninth houfe in Aries thou fhalt write upon the
;
figure the name of the effedt defired, and in the hand of the angel the name
of the intelligence of the fun. Let the fame image be made in Virgo
afcending, Mercury being fortunate in Aries in the ninth or Gemini af-
;
cending. Mercury being fortunate in the ninth houfe in Aquarius and let
j
itPart II. CEREMONIAL MAGIC. 97
-it be received with Saturn with a fortunate afped, and let the name of the
fpirit be written upon it. Let the fame likewife be made in Libra amend-
.
ing, Venus being received from Mercury in Gemini in the ninth houfe, and
write upon it the angel ofVenus. Again, you may make the fame image
Aquarius afcending, Saturn fortunately pofleffing the ninth in his ex-
altation, which is Libra ; and let there be written upon it the angel of
Saturn. The fame may be made Cancer afcending, the moon being received
by Jupiter and Venus in Pifces, and being fortunately placed in the ninth
houfe, and write upon it the fpirit of the moon.
There are likewife made rings ofdreams of wonderful efficacy and there
;
are rings of the fun and Saturn ; and the conftellation of them is when the
fun or Saturn afcend in their exaltations in the ninth, and when the moon
is joined to Saturn in the ninth, and in that*fign which was the ninth houfe
of the nativity ; and write and engrave upon the rings the name of the fpirit
ofthe fun or Saturn and by thefe rules you may know how and by what
^
means to conftitute more of thyfelf : but know this, that fuch images work
nothing (as they are limply images) unlefs they are vivified by a fpiritual and
celeftial virtue, and chiefly by the ardent defire and firm intent of the foul of
the operator. But who can give a foul to an image, or make a Hone, or
metal, or clay, or wood, or wax, or paper to live ? certainly no man (for this
3
arcanum doth not enter into an artift of a fluff neck,) he only hath it who
tranfcends the progrefs of angels, and comes to the veryarchitype himfelf.
The tables of numbers likewife confer to the receiving of oracles, being
duly formed under their own conftellations. Holy tables and papers likewife
ferve to this effed, being efpecially compofed and confecrated fuch as the
;
Almutelof Solomon, and the Table of the Revolution ofthe name Tetragram-
maton and thofe things which are of this kind, and written to produce
thefe effeds, out of various figures, numbers, holy Scriptures, and pidures,
with infcriptions of the divine names of God and names ofholy angels the
;
compofition whereof is taken out of diverfe places ofthe holy Scriptures,
Pfalms, and verficles, and other certain promifes out of the divine revelations
and prophecies^,
G
Book II. ToO y S THE KEY TO Book II ,
To the ume effeCt do conduce, likewife.Holy prayers and deprecations as
\v*ell to God as to the blefied angels ; the deprecations of which prayers are to
be compofed, as we have before fhewn, according to fome religious fimilitude,
making mention of thofe tilings which we intend to do as out of the Old
;
Teftament of the dream of Jacob, Jofeph, Pharoah, Daniel, and Nebuchad-
New
nezzar ifout of the Tefl'ament, of the dream of Jofeph of the three
: ;
wife men, or magi, of John the evangelift Deeping upon the bread: of our
Lord and whatever ofthe like kind can be found in religion, miracles, and
j
revelation. According to which the deprecation may be compofed if when
;
he goes to Deep it be with a firm intention, and then, without doubt, they will
afford a wonderful efi~eCt.
Therefore he who is defirous of receiving true oracles by dreams, let him
abDain from fupper, from drink, and be otherwife well difpofed, fo his brain
will be free from turbulent vapours let him alfo have his bed-chamber fair
;
and clean, exorcifed and confecrated if he will then let him perfume the fame
;
with fome convenient fumigation, and let him anoint his temples with fome
unguent efficacious hereunto, and put a ring ofdreams upon his finger; then
let him take one ofthe images we have fpokenof, or fome holy table, or paper,
and place the fame under his head then, having made a devout prayer, let
;
him addrefs himfelf to Deep, meditating upon that thing which he defires to
know fo Diall he receive a moD certain and undoubted oracle by a dream,
;
when the moon goes through that fign which was in the ninth houfe of his
nativity, and alfo when Die goes through the fign ofthe ninth ofthe revolu-
tion of his nativity, and when Die is in the ninth fign from the fign of per-
fection.
This is the way whereby we may obtain all fciences and arts whatfoever,
whether alchemy, magic, or elfe, fuddenly and perfectly with a true illumina-
tion cfour intellect although all inferior familiar fpirits whatfoever conduce
;
to this efteCt, and fometimes alfo evil fpirits fenfibly inform us intrinfically and
extrinficallv.
OfPart XL CEREMONIAL MAGIC, 99
Ofthe Method of rdijthg Evil or Familiar Spirits by a Circle
j
likewfe the Souls and Shadows ofthe Dead.
IT is here convenient that we fay fomething abfcut the means ufed by exor-
cifts to raife up what are ufually termed evil fpirits to the circle, and the
methods ofcalling up the ghofts or fouls of thofe who have died a violent or
premature death.
Now, ifany one would call any evil fpirit to the circle, he mull firft confi-
der and know his nature, and to which of the planets it agrees, and what of-
fices are diftributed unto him from the planet. This being known, let there
be fought out a place fit and convenient, and proper for his invocation,
according to the nature ofthe planet and the quality of the offices of the fame
fpirit, as near as it can be done ; as if their power be over the fea, rivers or
floods, then let the place be thefea-fhore, and fo of the reft. Then chufe a
convenient time both for the quality of the air (being ferene, quiet, clear and
fitting for the fpirits to affume bodies) as alfo of the quality of and nature of
;
the planetand the fpirit, as on his day and time in which he rules he may be
;
fortunate or unfortunate fometimes ofthe day, and fometimes ofthe night, as
the ftars and fpirits do require.
Thefe things being judicioufly confidered, let the circle be made at the
place elected, as well forthe defence ofthe invocant as the confirmation ofthe
fpirit. And in the circle write the divine general names, and all thofe
things which do yield defence to us and, with them, thofe divine names
;
which do rule his planet, and the offices of the fpirit himfelf likewife write
;
therein the names of the good fpirits which bear rule in the time you do this,
and are able to bind and conftrain -that fpirit which we intend to call. And
if w Te will further ftrengthen and fortify our circle, we may add charadters and
pentacles agreeing to the work ; then alfo, if we will, we may either, within or
without the circle, frame an angular figure with the infcription offuch con-
venient numbers as are congruent amongft themfelves to our work, which
O
2 are100 THE KEY TO Book
IIV
are to be known according to the manner of numbers and figures delivered in
our firft Book.
F urther we are to be provided with lights perfumes, unguents, andi
,
medicines, compounded according to the nature of the fpirit and planet,
which agree with the fpirit by reafon of their natural and celeftial
virtue.
Then we are to be furnifhed with holy and confecrated things neceflary, not'
only for the defence of the invocant' and his companions, but alfo ferving
for bonds to bind and conftrain the fpirits fuch as holy papers, lamens,
5
pictures, pentacles, fwords, fcepters, garments of convenient colour and
matter.
Then, with all thefe things provided, let the exorcift and his companions
go into the circle. In the firft place, let him confecrate the circle and every
thing he ufes which being done in a folemn and firm manner, with conve-
;
nient gefture and countenance, let him begin to pray with a loud voice after1
the manner following. Firft, by makingan oration or prayer to God, and them
intreating the good fpirits but wb fhould read fome prayer, or pfalm, or gof-
;
pel, for our defence in the firft place. After thofe prayers and orations are
faid, let him begin to invocate the fpirit which he defireth, with a gentle and
loving enchantment to all the coafts of the world, with a commemoration of
his own authority and power. Then reft and look round to fee ifany fpirit
does appear which ifhe delays, then let him repeat his invocation, as above
;
faid, until he hath done it three times ; and if the fpirit is obftinate and will
not appear, then let the invocator begin to conjure him with divine power ;
but fo that all his conjurations and commemorations do agree with the nature
and office of the fpirit, and reiterate the fame three times, from ftronger to
ftronger, ufing contumelies, curfings, punifhments, fufpenfion from his power
and office, and the like.
And after thefe courfes are finifhed, ceafe and if the fpirit fhall appear let
;
the invocant turn himfelf towards the fpirit, and courteoufly receive him, and,
earneftly entreating him, let him afk his name, which write down on your
holy paper, and then proceed by afking him whatfoever you will and ifin any
;
thingPart II. CEREMONIAL MAGIC. IGF
thing the fpirit (hall appear to be objlinate ambiguous, or lying, let him be
,
bound by convenient conjurations and ifyou doubt any thing, make, without
;
the circle with the confecratedfword, the figure ofa triangle or pentagon* and
compel the fpirit to enter into it > and ifyou receive any promife which yon
would have confirmed with am oath, ftretch the fword out of the circle, and.
fwear the fpirit by laying his hand on the fword. Then having obtained of
the fpiritthat which you defire, or are otherwife contented, licenfe him to de«
part with courteous words* giving command that he do no hurt and if he
;
will not depart, compel him by powerful conjurations andifneed require ex-
;
pel him by exorcifms and by making contrary fuffumigations. And when ho
is departed, go not out of the circle, but make a flay, and ufe fome prayer giv-
ing thanks 1 to God and the good angels ; and alfo praying for your future;
defence and confervation, which being orderly performed you may depart.
But if your hopes are fruftrated, and no fpirit will appear, yet for this**
you need not defpair but leaving the circle after licenfing to depart which
; (
mufl never be omitted, whether afpirit appears or not *,) return at other times,-
doing as before. And if you think that you have erred in any thing, then
you fhall amend by adding or diminifhing ; for the conflancy of repetition
encreafes your authority andpower, and flrikes a terror into the fpirits, and
'
compels them to obey*
And often the fpirits do come although they appear not vifible (to caufe5
terror to him who calls them,) either in the thing which he ufes, or elfe in
the operation itfelf. But this kind of licenfing is not given fmply, but by-
a kind of difpenfation, with fufpenfion, until they fhall render themfelves'
obedient : alfo, without a circle, thefe fpirits may be called to appear, by the-
way we have delivered in the confecration ofa book. But when we intend
to execute any effed where an apparition is not needful, then that is to be 1
done, by making and forming that which is to be to us an inflrument; as
whether it be an image, ring, character, table, writing, candle, facrifice, or
* They who negleft licenfing the fpirits are in very great danger,.becaufe inftances have been known
ofthe operator experiencing fudden death.
any -
.102 THE KEY TO BookIT.
any thing elfe then the name of the fpirit is to be written therein with
j
his character, according to the exigency of the experiment, either by writing
it with blood, or otherwife uSing a perfume agreeable to the fpirit. Like-
wife we are often to make orations and prayers to God and the good angels
before we invocate any evil fpirit, conjuring him by divine power.
In fome former parts of our work we have taught how and by what means
the foul is joined to the body.
We
will in this place inform thee farther, that thofe fouls do ftill love
their relinquished bodies after death, a certain affinity alluring them as it
were. Such are the fouls of noxious men who have violently relinquished
their bodies, and fouls wanting a due burial, which Still wander in a liquid
and turbulent fpirit about their dead carcafles for thefe fouls, by the known
;
means by which they were joined to their bodies, by the like vapours, li-
quors, and favours, are eaffiy drawn into them.
Hence it is that the fouls of the dead are not to be called up without
blood or by the application of fome part of their relid: body.
In the rai/ing therefore of thefe Shadows, we are to perfume with new
blood the bones of the dead, and with fleffi, eggs, milk, honey, and oil,
which furniSh the foul with a medium apt to receive its body.
It is likewife to be underftood, thofe who are deSirous to raife any fouls of
the dead, ought to feled thofe places wherein thefe kind of fouls are mod:
known to be converfant or by fome alliance alluring the fouls into their
;
forfaken bodies, or by fome kind of affedion in times paft impreffied in them
in their life, drawing the fouls to certain places, things, or perfons or by the
;
forciblenatureof fome place fittedand prepared to purgeor punifh thefe fouls
:
which places, for the moft part, are to be known by the appearance of vi-
sions, nightly incurfions, and apparitions.
Therefore the places moft fitting for thefe things are church-yards. And
better than them are thofe places devoted to the executions of criminal judg-
ments and better than thefe are thofe places where, of late years, there
;
have been fo great and fo many public Slaughters of men j and that place is
ftill better than thofe where fome dead carcafs that came by violent death is
notCEREMONIAL MAGIC.
Part II.- 102
not yet expiated, nor was lately buried •, for the expiation of thofe places is-
likewife a holy rite duly to be adhibited to the burial of the bodies, and of-
ten prohibits the foul returning to its body, and expels the fame afar off to
the place ofjudgment.
And from hence it is that the fouls ofthe dead are not eafy to be raifed up,
except it be thefouls of them whom we know to be evil, or to have perilhed
by a violent death, and whofe bodies do want the rite of due burial.
Now although we have fpoken concerning fuch places of this kind, it
will not be fafe or commodious to go unto them ; but it is requifite for us to
take to whatfoever place is to be chofen fome principal relidt of the body,
and therewith make a perfume in due manner, and to perform other compe-
tent rites.-
It is alfo to be known, that becaufe the fouls are certain fpiritual lights,
therefore artificial lights framed out of certain competent things, compound-
ed according toa true rule, with congruent infcriptions of names and feals, do
very much avail to the railing up of departed fouls. But thofe things which
are now fpoken of are not always fufficient to raife up fouls, becaufe of an
extra-natural portion of underftanding and reafon, which is above and known
1
only to the heavenly deftinies and their powers.
We
fhould therefore allure the faid fouls by fupernatural and celeftial
powers duly adminiftered, even by thofe things which do move the very har-
mony of the foul, as well imaginative as rational and intelle<5lual, fuch as
voices, fongs, founds, enchantments and religious things, as prayers, con-
5
jurations, exorcifms, and other holy rites, which may commodioully be ad-
minillered hereunto.
•' ..
END OF PART SECOND..
dienamai drupeA^everniyrdufday*fdiemseA m/A diser-Ae^iA, Sees.
Sundav dlfonday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Triday Jaturdav
'
Michaiel Gabriel Camael Raphael Sa duel Ana’el Cafliel
Mi
d==3=
-
3~j3'-)Qy/ ^ y| (\TAi)T| iUTJiIL r 4 o ^ |
J
S
®
O b
3 <$
r /
rrt oi yy oc X)
-vvnrv
fuvmeofthedt-.''steedi/ort name ofthe1'/Seamen.name/ofthe-SJ^ecoi/tat 'riasneofthe2.Atteanan na-mt tAc6</twWn. -ruzsneofthe3.AtAaa/un
iTpiPS4rufe/a />MuMotA
Machen. Sliamam. Machon. Raquie- -Zebul Sagun.
aAwv-ethe-b Jbewvon,
&
yt^{ieCl?rU*rifdll/
:
AAoirh trflAyunT) to-
te-mas/e of mraiat
cle/Aonu
M
-W.AS&rre££l?ei acfonotonV-AlUrv Pnffvlk
I;
OP THE
PARTICULAR COMPOSITION
OF THE
MAGICAL CIRCLE
• |Sv-» - •/- . f’X OF - *
EXORCISMS, BENEDICTIONS, AND THE CONJURATIONS
OF EVERY DAY IN THE WEEK;
AND
THE MANNER OF WORKING DESCRIBED.
BOOK PART
II. III.
HPHE following inftru&ions are the principal and fum total of all we have
faid, only we have brought it rather into a clofer train of experiment
and pradtice than any of the reft for here you may behold the diftindt func-
;
tions of the fpirits ; likewife the whole perfection of magical ceremonies is
here defcribed, fyllable by fyllable.
But as the greateft oower is attributed to the circles, (for they are certain
fortreffes,) we will now clearly explain, and fhew the compofition and figure
of a circle.
—
The Compoftion ofthe Circle. (For the figure ofthe Circle fee the Plate.)
The forms of circles are not always one and the fame, but are changed
according to the order of fpirits that are to be called, their places, times.
Book P
II. days,; ;
io6 THE KEY TO Book II.
days, and hours j for in making a circle it ought to be confidered in what
time of the year, what day, and what hour, what fpirits you would call, and;
to what ftar or region they belong, and what functions they have : therefore,,
to begin, let there be made three circles of the latitude of nine feet, diftantone
from another about a hand’s breadth. Firft, write in the middle circle the name'
of the hour wherein you do the work in the fecond place, write the-
;
name of the angel of the hoar in the third place, the feal of the angel of
the hour fourthly, the name of the angel that rules the day in which
;
you work, and the names of his ministers in the fifth place, the
;
name of the prefent time fixthly, the name of the fpirits ruling in
;
that part of time, and their prefidents feventhly, the name of the head of
;
the ftgn ruling in the time eighthly, the name of the earth, according to
;
the time of working ninthly, and for the compleating of the middle circle,
;
write the name of the fun and moon, according to the faid rule of time for
:
as the times are changed, fo are the names : and in the outer circle let there
be drawn, in the four angles, the names of the great prefidential fpirits of the
air that day wherein you would do this work, viz. the name of the king and
his three minifters. Without the circle, in four angles, let pentagons be
made. In the inner circle write four divine names, with four erodes inter-
pofed in the middle of the circle, viz. towards the eaft let be written Al-
:
pha towards the weft. Omega and let a crofs divide the middle of the circle.
; ;
When the circle is thus finifhed, according to rule, you fhall proceed to
conlecrate and blefs it, faying.
In the name of the holy, hiefed, and glorious Trinity proceed we to our
,
work in thefe myferies to accompli(h that which we defire we therefore, in the
;
names aforefaid, confecrate this piece of groundfor our defence fa that no fpirit
whatfoeverfall be able to break thefe boundaries neither be able to caufe injury
,
Jior detriment to any of us here afembled but thatthey may be compelled to )land
;
before this circle and anfwer truly our demands, fofar as it pleafeth Him who
,
liveth for ever and ever and who fays, Iam Alpha and Omega, the Beginning
;
and the End, which is, and which was , and which is to come , the Almighty
l am the Firjl and the Laf who am living and was dead and behold I live
, j
for1 . 1 ;!
Part III. CEREMONIAL MAGIC. °7
for ever and ever and Ihave the keys of death and hell. Blefs 0 Lord
,
this creature ofearth wherein wefand confirm 0 God! thyfirength in us, Jo
; ,
that neither the adverfary nor any evil thing may caufe us tofail, through the'
Amen
merits ofJefus Chrifi.
It is alfo to be known that the angels rule the hours in a fucceflive order,
according to the courfe of the heavens and the planets to which they are fub-
je<ft fo the fame fpirit which governeth the day rules alfo the firft hour of the
;
day the fecond from this governs the fecond hour, and fo on throughout
;
and when feven planets and hours have made their revolution it returns again
to the firft which rules the day. Therefore we fhall firft fpeak of the names
ofthe hours, viz.
^
A Table Jhewing Magical Names ofthe Hours, both Day
and Night.
NamesofHours NamesofHours
of of
theDay. theNight.
I Yain I Beron
2 Janor 2 Barol
Nafnia Thami
3 3
4 Salla 4 Athar
5 Sadedali 5 Methon
6 Thamur 6 Rana
7 Ourer 7 Netos
8 Thamic 8 Tafrac
9 Neron 9 Safiur
IO Jayon IO Agle
1 Abai 1 Calerva
12 ' Natalon 12 Salam
.
Gf the names ofthe angels and their feals it fhall be fpoken in tbeir proper
places but here we will ftiew the namesof the times.
j
P 2 A yearA
; : ; ;
io8 THE KEY TO Book
II»
A
year therefore is four-fold, and is divided into fpring, fummer, autumn*
and winter the names thereofare thefe
;
The fpring, Tahi the fummer, Cafmaran autumn, Adarcel winter*
Farias.
—
The Angels ofthe Spring Caracafa, Core, Amatiel, Commifloros.
The head of the fign in fpring is called Spugliguel.
The name of the earth in fpring, Amadai.
The names of the fun and moon in fpring fun, Abraym moon, Agufita*
: ;
—
The Angels of the Summer Gargatel, Tariel, Gaviel.
The headofthe fign of the fummer, Tubiel.
The name of the earth in fummer, Feftativi.
The names of the fun and moon in fummer: fun, Athemay moon,
;
Armatus.
—
The Angels ofthe Autumn Tarquam, Guabarel.
The head of the lign ofautumn, Torquaret.
The name ofthe earth in autumn, Rabinnara.
The names of the fun and moon in autumn the fun, Abragini the moon,
: j
Matalignais.
—
The Angels ofthe Winter mabael, Cetarari.
The head ofthe fign of winter, Attarib.
The name ofthe earth in winter, Geremiah.
The names of the fun and moon in winter the fun, Commutoff; the
:
moon, Affaterim.
Thefe things being known, finifii the confecration of the circle by faying,
“ Thou fhalt purge me with hyfop, O Lord, and I fhall be clean : thou
{halt wafh me and I fhall be whiter than fnow.”
Then fprinkle the fame with holy water, and proceed with the benedi&ion o§
the perfumes.
Bene*Part III, CEREMONIAL MAGIC, IO9
Benediction Perfumes.
of
THE God of Abraham, God of Ifaac, God of Jacob, blefs here the
creatures of thefe kinds, that they may fill up the power and virtue of their
odours fo that neither the enemy nor any falfe imagination may be able to
;
enter into them; through our Lord Jefus Chrift, &c. Then fprinkle the
fame with holy water.
The Exorcism of Fire into which the Perfumes are to beput.
I EXORCISE thee, O thou creature of fire, by the only true God Jehovah,
Adonai, Tetragrammaton, that forthwith thou caft away every phantafin from
We O
thee, that it fhall do no hurt to any one. befeech thee, Lord, to blefs
this creature offire, and fandlify it, fo that it may be blefled to fet forth the
praife and glory of thy holy name, and that no hurt may be permitted to
come to the exorciferor fpedtators ; through our Lord Jefus Chrift. Amen .
Of the Habit of the Exorcist.
IT fhould be made, as we have before defcribed, of fine white linen and
clean, and to come round the body loofe, but clofe before and behind
—
Ofthe Pentacle o/'Solomon. (For the fig. fee the Plate.)
IT is always necefiary to have this pentacle in readinefs to bind with, in
cafe the fpirits fhould refufe to be obedient, as they can have no power over
the exorcift while provided with and fortified by the pentacle, the virtue of
the holy names therein written prefiding with wonderful influence over the
fpirits.
It fhould be made in the day and hour of Mercury upon parchment made
of a kidfkin, or virgin, or pure, clean, white paper and the figures and
;
letters: ;
1 10 THE KEY TO Book II.
letters wrote in pure gold ; and it ought to be confecrated and fprinkled (as
before often fpoken) with holy water.
When
the vefture is put on, it will be convenient to fay the following
oration
An Oration when the Habit or Vesture isput on.
ANOOR,
Amacor, Amides, Theodonias, Anitor; by the merits of the an-
O
gels, Lord I will put on the garment of falvation, that this which I de-
!
lire I may bring to effedt, through thee, the moll holy Adonai, whofe king-
dom endureth for ever and ever. Amen.
The Manner of Working.
LET
themoon be increaling and equal, ifit can then be conveniently done
but efpecially let her not be combull, or in Via Combulla, which is between
fourteen degrees of Libra and fourteen degrees of Scorpio.
The operator ought to be clean and purified for nine days before he does
the work. Let him have ready the perfume appropriated to the day wherein
he does the work and he mull be provided with holy water from a clergy-
;
man, or he may make it holy himfelf, by reading over it the confecration
of water of baptifm he mull have a new vefiel of earth, with fire, the
;
vellure, and the pentacle and let all thefe things be rightly and duly confe-
;
crated and prepared. Let one of the companions carry the vefiel with fire, and
the perfumes, and let another bear the book, the garment, and pentacle and
;
let the operator himfelf carry the fword, over which Ihould be faid a prayer of
confecration : and on the middle of the fword on one fide let there be engra-
ven Agla -f-t and on the other fide, *j On> -f Tetragrammaton -f*. And the
place being fixed upon where the circle is to be eredted, let him draw the
lines we have before taught, and fprinkle the fame with holy water, confe-
crating, &c. &c.
ThePart Iir. CEREMONIAL MAGIC. Ill
The operator ought therefore to be prepared with failing, chaftity, and ab-
ftinence, for the fpace of three days before the day ofoperation and on the day
j
that he would do this work, being clothed with the fore-mentioned vefture,
and furnifhed with pentacles, perjumes, a fword, bible, paper pen, and con-
,
fecrated ink and all things necejfary hereunto, let him enter the circle, and
,
call the angels from the four parts of the world which do rule the feven
planets, the feven days of the week, colours, and metals, whofe names you
will fee in their places and, with bended knees, firft let him fay the Pater-
;
nofter or Lord’s Prayer, and then let him invocate the faid angels, faying,
O &
angeli fupradicli ejlote adjutores mihi petitioni, in adjatorum mihi,
!
in meis rebus et petitionibus.
Then call the angels from the four parts of the world that rule the air
the fame day in which he makes the experiment and, having employed efjpe-
;
cially all the names and fpirits within the circle, fay,
O
vos omnes adjutore atque contejlor, perfedem Adonai, per Hagios, Theos,
,
Ifchyros, Athanatos, Paracletos, Alpha & Omega & per hcec tria nomina fe~
,
creta , Ayla y On, Petragrammaton , quod hodie debeatis adimplere quod cupio.
Thefe things being performed, let him read the conjuration affigned for the
day; but if they fhall be pertinacious or refractory, and will not yield them-
felves obedient, neither to the conjuration affigned for the day, nor any of
the prayers before made, then ufe the exorcifm following
:
^
General Exorcism of the Spirits of the Air.
WE
being made after the image of God, endued with power from God,
and made after his will, do exorcife you, by the moft mighty and powerful
name of God, El, ftrong and wonderful, (here name the fpirit which is to ap-
pear ,J and we command you by Him who fpoke the word and it was done,
and by all the names of God, and by the name Adonai, El, Elohim, Elohe,
Zebaoth, Elion, Eferchie, jah, Tetragrammaton, Sadai, Lord GodMod; High:
we exorcife you, and powerfully command you that you forthwith appear
unto us here before this circle in a fair human ffiape, without any defor-
mity;
1 12 THE KEY TO Book II.
mity or tortuoiity come ye all fuch, becaufe we command you by the name
;
Yaw and Vau, which Adam heard and fpoke and by the name ofGod, Agla,
;
which Lot heard, and was faved with his family and by the name Joth,
;
which Jacob heard from the angel wreftling with him, and was delivered
from the hand of his brother Elau and by the name Anaphexeton, which
;
Aaron heard and fpoke, and was made wife and by the name Zebaoth,
;
which Mofes named, and all the rivers were turned into blood and by the
;
name Eferchie Oriflon, which Mofes named, and all the rivers brought forth
frogs, and they afcended into the houfes of the Egyptians, deftroying all
things and by the name Elion, which Mofes named, and there was great
;
hail, fuch as had not been fince the beginning of the world and by the
;
name Adonai, which Mofes named, and there came up locufts, which ap-
peared upon the whole land of Egypt, and devoured all which the hail had
left and by the name Schema Amathia, which Jofhua called upon, and the
;
fun flayed his courfe and by the name Alpha and Omega, which Daniel
;
named, and deflroyed Bel and flew the dragon and in the name Emmanuel,
which the three children, Sidraeh, Mifach, and Abednego, fung in the
midfl of the fiery furnace, and were delivered and by the name Hagios
j
and by the feal of Adonai and by Ifchyros, Athanatos, Paracletos and by
; ;
thefe three fecret names, Agla, On, Tetragrammaton, I do adjure and con-
tefl you and by thefe names, and by all the other names of the living and true
;
God, our Lord Almighty, 1 exorcife and command you, by Him whofpoke the
word and it was done, to whom all creatures are obedient ; and by the dreadful
judgment of God •> and by the uncertain fea ofglafs, which is before the divine
Majejiy, mighty and powerful by the four beads before the throne, having eyes
;
before and behind and by the fire round about his throne and by the holy
; j
angels of heaven by the mighty wifdom of God, we do powerfully exorcife
;
you, that you appear here before this circle, to fulfil our will in all things
which fhall feem good unto us; by the fealof Baldachia, and by this name Pri-
meumaton, which Mofes named, and the earth opened and fwallowed up Corah,
Dathan, and Abiram ami in the power of that name Primeumaton, com-
:
manding the whole hoft of heaven, we curfe you, and deprive you of your
office,Part lit CEREMONIAL MAGIC. n
3
office, joy, and place, and do bind you in the depth of the bottomlefs pit,
there to remain until the dreadful day of the laft judgment and we bind you
;
into eternal fire, and into the lake of fire and brimflone, unlefs you forth-
with appear before this circle to do our will therefore, come ye, by thefe
:
names, Adonai, Zebaoth, Adonai,, Amioram come ye, come ye, come ye,
;
Adonai commandeth Saday, the moll mighty King of Kings, whofe power
;
no creature is able to refill, be unto you moll dreadful, unlefs ye obey, and
forthwith affably appear before this circle, let miferable ruin and fire un-
quenchable remain with you therefore come ye, in the name of Adonai,
j
Zebaoth, Adonai, Amioram j come, come, why ftay you ? haften! Adonai,
Sadai, the King of Kings commands you : El, Aty, Titcip, Azia, Hin, Jen,
Minofel, Achadan Vay, Vaah, Ey, Exe, A, El, El, El, A, Hy, Hau, Hau,
Hau, Vau, Vau, Vau, Vau.
A
Prayer to God, to be faid in the four Parts of the World
in the Circle.
AMORULE,
Taneha, Latiflen, Rabur, Teneba, Latillen, Efcha, Aladia,
O
Alpha and Omega, Leyfte, Orifion, Adonai; moft merciful heavenly
Father have mercy upon me, although a finner make appear the arm of
! ;
thy power in me this day againfl; thefe obfidnate fpirits, that I, by thy will,
may be made a contemplator of thy divine works, and may be illuffcrated
with all wifdom, to the honour and glory of thy holy name. I humbly be-
feech thee, that thefe fpirits which I call by thy judgment may be bound and
conftrained to come and give true and perfedt anfwers to"'thofe things which
I fhall alk of them and that they may do and declare thofe things unto us,
;
which by me may be commanded of them, not hurting any creature,
neither injuring or terrifying me or my fellows, nor hurting any other
creature, and affrighting no man but let them be obedient to thofe things
;
which are required of them.
a. Then314 THE KEY TO Book
II.
Then, ftanding in the middle of the circle, ftretch out thy hand towards
the pentacle, faying. By the pentacle of Solomon Ihave calledyou give me a
;
true anfwer
.
Then follows this Oration.
BERALANENSXS,
Balaachienfis, Paumachia, and Apologia Sedes, by the
mollmighty kings and powers, and the moft powerful princes, genii, Liachidse,
minifiers of the Tartarean feat, chief prince of the feat of Apologia, in the
ninth legion, I invoke you, and by invocating, conjure you and being armed
;
with power from the fupreme Majefty, I ftrongly command you, by Him who
fpoke and it was done, and to whom all creatures are obedient and by this
;
ineffable name, Tetragrammaton Jehovah, which being heard the elements
are overthrown, the air is lhaken, the fea runneth back, the fire is quenched,
the earth trembles, and all the hoft of the celeflials, and terreftrials, and in-
fernals do tremble together, and are troubled and confounded wherefore, forth-
:
with and without delay, do you come from all parts of the world, and make
rational anfwers unto all thingsI fhall afk ofyou; and come ye peaceably, vifibly
and affably now, without delay, manifefling what we defire, being conjured
by the name of the living and true God, Helioren, and fulfil our commands,
and perfifl unto the end, and according to our intentions, vifibly and affably
fpeaking unto us with a clear voice, intelligible, and without any ambiguity.
Of the Appearance of the Spirits.'
THESE
things being duly performed, there will appear infinite vifions,
apparitions, phantafms, &c. beating of drums, and the found of all kinds of
mufical inftruments ; which is done by the fpirits, that with the terror they
might force fome of the companions out ofthe circle, becaufe they can effedt
nothing againfi: the exorcifl himfelf after this you fhall fee an infinite com-
:
pany-;
Part III. CEREMONIAL MAGIC.
pany of archers, with a great multitude of horrible beafts, which will ar-
range themfelves as if they would devour the companions neverthelefs fear
;
nothing.
Then the exorcift, holding the pentacle in his hand, let him fay. Avoid
hence thefe iniquities, by virtue of the banner of God. Then will the
fpirits be compelled to obey the exorcift, and the company ftiall fee them
no more.
Then let the exorcift, ftretching out his hand with the pentacle, fay.
Behold the pentacle of Solomon which I have brought into your prefence
, ;
behold the perfon of the exorcift in the middle of the exorcifm, who is armed
by God, without fear, and well provided, who potently invocateth and call-
eth you by exorcifing come, therefore, with fpeed, by the virtue of thefe
;
names. Aye Saraye, Aye Saraye defer not to come, by the eternal names of
;
the living and true God, Eloy, Archima, Rabur, and by the pentacle of
Solomon here prefent, which powerfully reigns over you and by the virtue
;
of the celeftial fpirits, your lords and by the perfon of the exorcift, in the
;
middle of the exorcifm : being conjured, make hafte and come, and yield
obedience to your mafter, who is called Odtinomos. This being performed,
immediately there will be hidings in the four parts of the world, and then
immediately you ihall fee great motions; which when you fee, fay. Why
ftay you ? Wherefore do you delay ? What do you ? Prepare yourfelves to be
obedient to your mafter in the name of the Lord, Bathat or Vachat milling
upon Abrac, Abeor coming upon Aberer.
Then they will immediately come in their prbper forms and when you
;
fee them before the circle, ihew them the pentacle covered with fine linen
uncover it, and lay, Behold your confufion if you refufe to be obedient ; and
fuddenly they will appear in a peaceable form, and will fay, Aik what you
will, for we are prepared to fulfil all your commands, for the Lord hath
fubjefted us hereunto.
Then let the exorcift fay, Welcome fpirits, or moft noble princes; be
caufe I have called you through Him to whom every knee doth bow, both
of things in heaven, and things in earth, and things under the earth in
;
a.* whofe—
6
;
1 1 THE KEY TO Book II*
whofe hands are all the kingdoms of’kings, neither is there any able to con-
tradidl his Majefty. Wherefore, I bind you, that you remain affable and
vifible before this circle, fo long and fo conftant neither fhall you depart
;
without my licence, until you have truly and without any faliacy performed
my will, by virtue of his power who hath fet the fea her bounds, beyond
which it cannot pafs, nor go beyond the law of his providence, viz. of
the Molt High God, Lord, and King, who hath created all things* Amen.
Then let the exorcift mention what he would have done.
After which fay, In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of
the Ho^ Ghoft, go in peace unto your places peace be between us and you
;
be ye ready to come when you are called. (For the figures of the circle,
pentacle, and other inflruments, fee the Plate.)
Now, that you may have an idea of the manner of compofing the circle,
we have given the fcheme of one for the firft hour of the. Lord's day,, in
fpring.
Here follow the Considerations and Conjurations/^ every Day
in the Week and firf of
The Considerations, &c. of Sunday.
(For the figure of thefeals, planets fgns, names of the angels of the feve-
,
ral days, and names of the fourth heaven, with the chara&ers and magic
book, fee the Plate.}
THE angels of the Lord’s day Micbael t Dardiel , Huratapcl. —
The angels of the air ruling on the Lord’s day, Varcan , king ; his minif-
ters, Tus, Andas, CynabaL
The wind which the angels of the air are faid to rule, is the north wind.
The angels of the fourth heaven ruling on the Lord s day, which fhould
be called from the four parts of the world, are,—eaft, Samael , Baciel ', Abel,
Gabriel
x, ;
Part III. CEREMONIAL MAGIC. II7
—
Gabriel , Vhna — traba ; from the weft, Anael, Pabel, Uflael, Burchat, Sucera-
tos, Capabi — li ; from the north, Aiel, Ariel, vel Aquiel, Mafgabriel, Saphiel,
Matuyel at the fouth, Haludiel, Machafiel, Charjiel, Uriel, Naromiel.
;
The perfume of Sunday is Red Sanders.
The Conjuration for Sunday.
I CO.NJURE and confirm upon you, ye ftrong and holy angels of God,
in the name Adonai, Eye, Eye r Eya, which is he who was, and is, and
is to come. Eye, Abray y and in the name Saday, Cados, Cados, fitting on high
upon the cherubin and by the great name of God himfelf, ftrong, and pow-
erful, who is exalted above all the heavens ; Eye , Saraye , who created the
world, the heavens, the earth, the fea, and all that in them is, in the firft
day, and fealed them with his holy name Phaa and by the name of the
;
angels who rule in the fourth heaven, and ferve before the moft mighty
Salamia an angel great and honourable and by the name of his ftar,
which is Sol, and by his fign, and by. the immenfe name of the living God r
and by all the names aforefaid, I conjure thee, Michael, O great angel who
!
art chief ruler of this day y, and by the name Adonai, the God of Ifrael, I
conjure thee, O Michael ! that thou labour for me, and fulfil all my petitions
according to my will and defire in my caufe and bufinefs.
The fpirits ofthe air ofthe Lord’s day are under the north wind their na-
;
ture is to procure gold, gems, carbuncles, diamonds, and rubies, and to caufe
one to obtain favour and benevolence, to diffolve enmities amongft men, to
raife to honours, and to take away infirmities. They appear, for the moft
part, in a large, full andgreat body, fanguine and grofs, in a gold colour, with
the tindure of blood. Their motion is like the lightning of heaven the lign
;
of theirbecoming vifible is that they move the perfon to fweat that calls them..*
but their particular forms are as follow viz,
y.
A
king, having a fcepter, riding on a lion,
A
king crowned a queen with a fcepter*
y
A
bird
j
1——
1 , ;
T&E KEY T9 Book
1 II.
A
bird a lion a cock.
; ;
A
yellow garment.
A
fcepter.
Considerations, &c. of Monday.
(For the angel of Monday, his figil, planet, fign of the planet, and name of
the firft heaven, fee the Plate.)
THE
angels of Monday Gabrieli Michael Samael.
, —
The angels of the air ruling Monday, Arcan king; his minifters, Bilef,
Mijfabiiy Abuhaza. The wind which thefe are fubjed: to is the weft wind.
The angels of the firft heaven, ruling on Monday, to be called from
the fou — r parts of the world. From the eaft, Gabriel , Madiel, D — eamie /,
fanak from the weft, Sachiel, Zaniel Habiel Bachance Corobael from
; , y ,—
— the north, Mae l, Uvael, Valnum , Baliel, Balay, Humajtraw ; from the fouth,
Curaniel, Dabriel, Darquiel, Hamm, Vetnel.
The perfume of Monday Aloes.
The Conjuration of Monday.
I CONJURE and confirm upon you, ye ftrong and good angels, in the
name Adonai Adonai Adonai Adonai, Eye Eye, Eye Cados, Cados Cados,
y y y y ; ,
Achirn Achim Ja, Ja, ftrong Ja, who appeared in mount Sinai with the
, ,
glorification of king Adonai, Sadai, Zebaoth, Anathay Ya, Ya, Ya, Maranata,
Abim, Jeia, who created the fea, and all lakes and waters, in the fecond day,
which are above the heavens and in the earth, and fealed the fea in his high
name, and gave it its bounds beyond which it cannot pafs ; and by the names
of the angels who rule in the firjl legion , and who ferve Orphaniel, a great,
precious,, and honourable angel, and by the name ofhis ftar which is Luna, and
by all the names aforefaid, I conjure thee, Gabriel, who art chief ruler of
Monday, the fecond day, that for me thou labour and fulfil, c.
The—
—
Part III. CEREMONIAL MAGIC. gm.
The fpirits of the air ofMonday are fubjedt to the Weft wind, which is the
wind of the moon their nature is to give filver and to convey things from
;
place to place to make horfes fwift, and to difclofe the fecrets of perfons both
;
prefent and future.
Theirfamiliar Forms are asfollow :
'
They appear generally of a great and full ftature, foft and phlegmatic, of
colour like a black, obfcure cloud, having a fwoln countenance, with eyes
red and full of water, a bald head, and teeth like a wild boar their mo-
;
tion is like an exceeding great tempeft of the fea. For their fign there will
appear an exceeding great rain, and their particular fhapes are,
A
king, like an archer, riding upon a doe.
A
little boy.
A woman-hunter with a bow and arrows.
A
cow ; a little doe ; a goofe. '
A
green, or filver-coloured garment.
An arrow a creature with many feet.
;
Considerations o/'Tuesday.
(For the angel of Tuefday, his figil, planet, fign governing the planet,
and name of the fifth heaven, fee the Plate.)
THE
angels of the air on Tuefday Samael, Satael, AmabieL
The angels of the air ruling on Tuefday, Samax king; his Minifters, Car-
,
max, Ifmoli Pajfran.
,
The wind to which the faid angels are fubjedt is the eaf wind.
—
The angels of the fifth heaven —ruling on Tuefday. At the eaft, Friagne
,
Guely Damael, Calzas, A — rragon ; the. weft, Lama t AJlagna , Lobquiny So-
neasy Jazel , If—iael, Irel ; the north, Rbaumely Hyniel , Rayel, Seraphiely Fra-
del, Mathiel ; the fouth, Sacriel, faniely Galdel, Ofaely Vianuely Zaliel.
The perfume of Tuefday Pepper
.120 THE KEY TO Book II,
The Conjuration of Tuesday.
CONJURE
I arid call upon you, ye ftrong and good angels, in the names
Ya, Ya, Ya He, He, He Va, Hy, Hy, Ha, Ha, Ha Va, Ya, Va An,
; ; j ;
An, An Aia, Aia, Aia El, Ay, Elibra, Elohim, Elohim and by the names
; ; ;
of the high God, who hath made the fea and dry land, and by his word hath
made the earth, and produced trees, and hath fet his feal upon the planets,
with his precious, honoured, revered and holy name and by the name of the
;
angels governing in the fifth houfe, who are fubfervient to the great angel
Acimoy, who is ftrong, powerful, and honoured, and by the name of his flar
which is called Mars I call upon thee, Samael by the names above mentioned,
t ,
thou great angel who prefides over the day of Mars and by the name
! ,
Adonai, the living and true God, that you affift: me in accomplifiling my
labours, &c. fas in the conjuration ofSunday.)
The fpirits ofthe air on Tuefday are under the eafi: wind their nature is to
j
bring or caufe war, mortality, death, combuftions, and to give two-thoufand
foldiers at a time to bring death, infirmity or health.
;
Familiar Forms ofthe Spirits of Mars.
THEY
appear in a tall body and choleric, a filthy countenance, of colour
brown, fwarthy, or red, havinghorns like harts, and griffins claws, and bellow-
ing like wild bulls. Their motion is like fire burning : their fign thunder and
lightning round about the circle.
Their particular fhapes are, a king armed, riding on a wolf a man armed.
;
A woman with a buckler on her thigh.
A
fiie-goat a horfe a flag.
, j
A
red garment a piece of wool a cowflip.
, ;
Con-—
—
;
Part III* CEREMONIAL MAGIC, I2T
Considerations of Wednesday,
(For the angel of Wednefday his figil, ©V. &c. fee the Plate.)
THE
angels ofWednefday—Raphael, Meil, Seraphiel.
The angels ofthe air ruling onWednefday, Mediat, king Minifters, Suquinos
; ,
Sallales the faid angels of the air are fubjedt to the fouth-wejl wind.
Theangels of the fecond heaven, governing Wednefday, that are to be call-
—
ed, &c. A — t the eaft Mathlai, Tarmiel , Baraborat at, the weft, yerufcue,
Merattron ; at the north, Thiel, Rael, Jarihael, Venahel Velel, Abuiori, TJcir«
— ,
miel at the fouth, Milliely Nelapa, C alvei vel Laquel.
,
The perfume ofWednefday Majlic
.
The Conjuration of Wednesday.,
I CONJURE and call upon you, ye ftrong and holy angels, good and pow-
erful, in a ftrong name offear and praife, Ja, Adonay, Elohim, Saday, Saday,
Saday Eie, Eie, Eie Afamie, Afamie and in the name of Adonay, the God
; ; ;
of Ifrael, who hath made the two great lights, and diftinguifhed day from night
for the benefit ofhis creatures •> and by the names ofall the difcerning angels,
governing openly in the fecond houfe before the great angel, Tetra, ftrong and
powerful ; and by the name of his ftar which is Mercury and by the
name ofhis feal, which is that of a powerful and honoured God ; and I call
upon thee, Raphael, and by the names above mentioned, thou great angel who
prefideft over the fourth day: and by the holy name which is written in
the front ofAaron, created the moft high prieft, and by the names ofall the
angels who are conftant in the grace of Chrift, and by the name and place of
Ammaluim, that you affift me in my labours, &c. &c.
The fpirits of the air, on Wednefday are fubjedt to the fouth-weft wind
j
their nature is to give all forts ofmetals, to reveal all earthly things paft, pre-
Book R
II. fent.—
522 THE KEY TO Book IL
fent, and to come to pacify judges, to give vidlory in war, to teach experi-
;
ments and all fciences decayed, and to change bodies mixt ofelements, con-
ditionally, out ofone thing into another to give health or infirmities, to raife
;
the poor and caff down the rich, to bind or loofe fpirits, to open locks or bolts.
Such kinds of fpirits have the operations of others, but not in their perfect
power, but in virtue or knowledge.
Forms ofthe Spirits c/Mercury.
THE
fpirits of Mercury appear in a body of a middle flature, cold, liquid
and moiffc, fair and ofan affable fpeech, in a human fhape and form, like a
knight armed, of colour ciear and bright. The motion ofthem is like filvet
coloured clouds for their fign they caufe horror and fear to him that calls
:
them.
Their particular fhapes are, a king riding upon a bear.
A fair youth a woman holding a diftaff.
;
A dog, a flie-bear, and a magpye.
A
garment of various changeable colour*
.
A
rod, a little ftaffi.
j
>
Considerations Thursday.
of
(For the angel ofThurfday, his figil, &c. fee the Plate.)
THE
angels ofThurfday Sachiel, CaJJiel, Afafiel.
The angels of the air of Thurfday, Suth, king Ministers, Maguth
; t
Gutrix.
—
The angels of the air are under the fouth-wind.: (But becaufe there
are no angels of the air to be found above the fifth heaven, therefore, on
Thurfday, fay the prayers following in the four parts of the world :)
At the eafl—O Dens magne et excelfe et honorate, per infinitafecula
;
or, O
great and raoft high God, honoured be thy name, world without end.
At—
.
Part III; CEREMONIAL MAGIC, 123
—
At the weft- O wife, pure, and juft God, of divine clemency, I befeech
thee, moft holy Father, that this day I may perfectly underftand and accom-
plifh my petition, work, and labour; for the honour and glory of thy holy
name, who liveft and reigneft, world without end. Amen.
—
At the north O God, ftrong, mighty, and wonderful, from everlafting
to everlafting, grant that this day I bring to effed: that which I defire,
through our bleffed Lord. Amen.
—
At the fouth O mighty and moft merciful God, hear mv prayers and
grant my petition.
The perfume of Thurfday Saffron.
The Conjuration ^/"Thursday.
I CONJURE and confirm upon you, ye ftrong andholy angels, by thenames
Cados, Cados,Cados, Efchereie, Efcherei,Efchereie, Hatim,Ya, ftrong founder
ofthe worlds Cantine, Jaym, Janie, Anic, Calbot, Sabbac, Berifay, Alnaym
; ;
and by the name Adonai, who created fillies and creeping things in the wa-
ters, and birds upon the face of the earth, flying towards heaven, in the fifth
day and by the names of the angels ferving in the fixth hoft before Paftor,
;
a holy angel, and a great and powerful prince and by the name of his ftar,
which is Jupiter, and by the name ofhis feal, and by the name of Adonai,
the great God, Creator ofall things, and by the name of all the ftars, and
by their power and virtue, and by all the the names aforefaid, I conjure thee,
Sachiel, a great Angel, who art chief ruler of Thurfday, that for me thou
&c
labour,
The fpirits of the air of Thurfday are fubje<ft to the fouth wind ; their
nature is to procure the love of women, to caufe men to be merry and joy-
ful, to pacify ftrifes and contentions, to appeafe enemies, to heal the difeafed,
and to difeafe the whole, and procure Ioffes, or reftore things loft.—
; ;
J24 THE KEY TO Book
II.
ThefamPiar Forms of the Spirits of Jupiter.
V '
The appear with a body fanguine and choleric, ofa middle ftature, with
a horrible, fearful motion, but with a mild countenance, and a gentle fpeech,
and of the colour of iron : the motion of them is flafhings of lightning, and
thunder. For their fign there will appear about the circle men who {hall
feem to be devoured by lions. Their forms are,
A
king, with a fworddrawn, riding on a {lag.
A
man, wearing a mitre,with long raiment.
A
maid, with a laurel crown, adorned with flowers.
A
bull a {lag a peacock.
; -,
An azure garment a fword a box-tree.
; ;
Considerations Friday.
of
(For the feal planet, and fign governing the planet, and name of the third
heaven, fee the Plate.)
>
THE
angels of Friday Anael Rachiel, Sachiel.
,
The angels of the air ruling on F riday, Sarabotes, king Minifters, Ama -
;
hid. Aba, Abalidoth, Blaef. The wind which the angels ofthe air are fubjedt
to is the weft wind.
Angels of the third heaven, which are to be called from the four parts of
the world, are
—
At the eaft, Setchiel Cheduftamel, Corat Tamuel Tenaciel at the weft.
, , —,
Tun'd Coniel Babiel, Kadie, Maltiel Huphaltiel at the north, Penid,
, , , —
P
Penael, Penat , Raphael, Rand, Doremiel ; at the fouth, orofa, Sachiel,
Chermiel Samael, Santanael, Famiel.
The perfume of Friday—~Pepperwort,
The
(;
Part III, CEREMONIAL MAGIC.
The Conjuration of Friday.
CONJURE
I and confirm upon you, ye ftrong and holy angels, by the
names On, Hey Hey a, Ja, Je, Saday Adonai, and in the name Sadat, who
, ,
created four-footed beafis, and creeping things, and man, in the fixth day,
and gave to Adam power over all creatures wherefore blefled be the name
;
of the Creator in his place and by the name of the angels ferving in the
;
third hoft> before Dagiel, a great angel, and a ftrong and powerful prince,
and bythe name of his ftar, which is Venus, and by his feal which is holy;
and by all the names aforefaid, I conjure upon thee, Anael, who art the chief
ruler this day, that thou labour for me, &c.
The fpirits of the air on Friday are fubjed to the well wind; their na-
ture is to give filver, to incite men, and incline them to luxury, to caufe
marriages, to allure men to love women, to caufe or take away infirmities,
and to do all things which have motion.
Their familiar Shapes.
They appear with a fair body, of middle ftature, with an amiable and
pleafant countenance, of colour white or green, their upper parts golden
the motion of them is like a clear ftar. For their fign there will appear naked
virgins round the circle, which will ftrive to allure the invocator to dalli-
ance with them but
:
Their particular Shapes are
,
A
king, with a fcepter, riding on a camel.
A
naked girl a fhe-goat.
;
A
camel a dove.
;
A
white or green garment.
Flowers; the herb favine.—
;;
*
I26> THE KEY TO Book II,
a
The Considerations of Saturday 1 .
(For feal, &c. &c. fee the Plate.)
THE
angels ofSaturday Cajfiel Machatan,Uriel.
,
The angels of the air ruling this day, Maymon king Minifters, Abu-
, ;
malith, AJfaibi Balidet. The wind they are fubjedt to, xhefouth wind.
,
The fumigation of Saturday isfulphur.
There are no angels ruling in the air on Saturday above the fifth heaven,
therefore in the four corners of the world, in the circle, ufe thofe orations
which are applied to Thurfdav.
7he Conjuration of Saturday.
CONJURE
I and confirm upon you, Caphriel, or Cafliel, Machator, and
Seraquiel, ftrong and powerful angels and by the name Adonai, Adonai,
;
Adonai Eie, Eie, Eie Acim, Acim, Acim; Cados, Cados Ima, Ima, Ima;
; ; ;
Salay, Ja, Sar, Lord and Maker ofthe World, who refted on the feventh day
and by him who of his good pleafure gave the fame to be obferved by the
children of Ifrael throughout their generations, that they fhould keep and
fandtify the fame, to have thereby a good reward in the world to come; and by
the names of the angels ferving in the feventh hoft, before Booel, a great
angel, and powerful prince ; and by the name of his ftar, which is Saturn
and by his holy feal, and by the names before fpoken, I conjure upon thee,
Caphriel, who art chief ruler of the feventhday, which is the Sabbath, that for
me thou labour, &c. &c.
The fpirits of the air on Saturday are fubjedl to the fouth-weft wind : the
nature of them is to fow difcords, hatred, evil thoughts and cogitations, to
give leave to kill and murder, and to lame or maim every member.
TheirPart III. CEREMONIAL MAGIC. I27
Theirfamiliar Shapes.
THEY
generally appear with a tall, lean, flender body, with an angry
countenance, having four faces, one on the back ofthe head, one in the front,
and one on each fide, nofed or beaked, likewife there appears a face on each
knee of a black thining colour ; their motion is the moving of the wind,
with a kind of earthquake y their fign is white earth, whiter than fnow.
Theirparticular Shapes are
,
* A king, bearded, riding on a dragon.
An"old man with a beard..
An old woman leaning on a crutch.
A
hog a dragon an owl.
; ;
A
black garment a hook or fickle.
;
A
juniper tree.
Thofe are the figures that thefe fpirits ufually afiiime, which are generally
terrible at the firfi: coming on of the vifions, but as they have only a limited
power, beyond which they cannot pafs, fo the invocator need be under no
apprehenfions of danger, provided he is well fortified with thofe things we
have directed to be ufed for his defence, and above all, to have a firm
and conftant faith in the mercy, wifdom, and goodnefs of God.
* Thofe fpiritswho appear in a kingly form, have a much higher dignity than them who take an
inferior (hape and thofe who appear in a human fliape, exceed in authority and power them that come
;
as animals; and again, thefe latter furpafs in dignity them who appear as trees or inftruments, and the
like: fo that you are to judge of the power, government, and authority offpirits by their afluming
a more noble and dignified apparition.
2ND OF THE THIRD PART, AND* OF CAEAUSTICAL AND CEREMONIAL MAGtC,/
THE
MAGIC AND PHILOSOPHY
OF
HEMIUS OF SPAN HEIM
CONTAINING HIS BOOK OF
SECRET THINGS,
AND
DOCTRINE OF SPIRITS:
Withmanycuriousandrare Secrets (hithertonot generallyknown ;)
THE ART OF DRAWING SPIRITS INTO CRYSTALS, &e.
Withmany otherExperiments in the Occult Sciences, neveryet publiihed in the Englifh Language,
TRANSLATED FROM A VALUABLE LATIN MANUSCRIPT,
FRANCIS BARRETT,
Br
STUDENT OP CHEMISTRY, NATURAL AND OCCULT PHILOSOPHY, THE CABALA, &
C,
PART
IV.
Book II, STHE
MAGIC AND PHILOSOPHY
O F
The T'ranfators Letter to a Friend of his, ayoung Student in thefe
occult Sciences.
MY FRIEND,
jj^NOWING
thee to be a curious fearcher after thofe fciences which are
out of the common track of ftudy, (I mean the art offoretelling events,
magic, telifmans, &c.) I am moved fpirituallyto give thee my thoughts upon
them, and by thefe ideas here written, to open to thine eye (fpiritual) as
much information as it feems neceflary for thee to know, by which thou
mayeft be led by the hand into the deledtable field of nature and to give
;
thee fuch documents as, guided by the fupreme wifdom of the Higheft, thou
mayeft refrelh thy foul with a delicious draught of knowledge fo that after
j
recreating thy fpirit with the ufe ofthofe goodgifs which may pleafe God to
beftow on thee, thou mayeft be wrapped up into the contemplation of the
immenfe wifdom ofthat great munificent Being who created thee.
Now, art thou a man, in whofe foul the image of Divinity is fealed for
eternity, think firft what is thy defire in the fearching after thefe myfteries !
Is it wealth, honour, fame, power, might, aggrandizement, and the like ?
Perhaps thy — heart fays. All ! all thefe I would gladly crave ! If fo, this is
my anfwer, feek firft to know thyfelf thoroughly, cleanfe thy heart from all
wicked, vain, and rapacious defires. Thinkeft thou, oh man to attain
!
power to gratify thy lifts, to enrich thy coffers, to build houfes , to raife thyfelf
to the pinnacle ofhuman admiration if thefe are thy hopes and defires, thou
;
haft reafon to lament thy being born : all fuch defires are immediately from
S 2 the;
132 THE TRANSLATOR'S LETTER Book II.
the devil, I mean that Being whofe engines (/. e. myriads of demons) are conti-
nually in the adt of placing fenfual delights and luxuries before the depraved
minds and hearts of man, and whofe chief bufinefs and property it is to
counteract the benevolent actions and infpiration of thofe blelfed fpirits who
are the inflruments ofGod our Creator.
Fear God and love thy neighbour] ufe no deceit, fwear not, neither lyc
;
let all thy adtions be fincere. Here, O man ! is the grand feal ofall earthly
"wifdom, the true talifman of human happinefs. When thou (halt accom-
plifh this, behold nothing will be impoflible unto thee as far as God permits i
then with all fpeed apply thy mind and heart to attain knowledge and wif-
dom j with all humility throw thy dependance on God alone, the author of
all things that cannot die.
To know thyfelf is to know God, for it is a fpiritual gift from God that
enables a man to know himfelf. This gift but very few poflefs, as may be
daily feen. How many are there tolfed about to and fro’ upon the perilous fea
ofcontending paffions, and who are more light than feathers how many in
!
this great city who place their chiefeft good in debauchery and letchery See
!
their adtions, manners and difpoftions thefe poor, unfortunate, miferable
,
wretches, fuch is their fatal magical infatuation and ignorance, that they
think thofe mad who might even attempt to reafon with them on the
vanity and mifery of their fituation. To make myfelf more intelligible, thefe
are what the world calls men of fafhion, a phrafe infignificant enough
when we confider that the univerfal falhion of this time is vice, and that
fo glaring, that it needs no great intelledt to difeover what is daily open to-
the view of the obferver. But to you, my friend, I have addreffed thefe
lines ] therefore let it not be fuppofed that I am reprehending my friend for
vices which I cannot fuppofe him attached to : for I know thou art a young
man defigned for the receiving of inftrudtion, in much higher and more
glorious contemplations than thofe fons of earth are capable of, therefore
I have prefented thee with this tranflation which thou didft delire me to
give thee.
But' Part IV. TO A FRIEND. 133
Butbeware of flattery, felf-Iove,and covetoufnefs, fo wilt thou thrive and be
;
diligent in thy occupation, fo /hall thy body be fed. Idlenefs is offenfive to
the Deity, induftry fhall fweeten thy brown bread,and the fruitsofit fhallwarjm
thine heart, and infpire thy foul with gratitude to him that blefles thee with
enough : feek for no more, for it will damn thee pray for enough to feed and
;
clothe thy body, but afk no more, leaf; thou pine away in heart-rending po-
verty, and fpend the remainder of thy days in contumely and beggary. For
know a thing moft neceflaryfor thee to know, that ifby thy ftudy, by thy art,
or any other thing, thou couldft commanda million offpirits, it thould not be
lawful for thee to with to gain riches fuddenly, for the Wifdom Eternal has
put forth the fiat ; and it has been faid by him who never fpoke in vain, and
who cannot lye, that man/ball get bread bv thefeeeat of his brow there-
;
fore let us not have in view the enriching ofourfelves in worldly goods, by fu-
pernatural means, or by a greedy defiring ofwhat we ought to look upon with
eyes ofcontempt, draw upon us the wrath ofGod. Rather let us cheerfully
rely on, and follow in very deed, fpirit and truth, thefe words of the apoftle,
“ Seek ye firft the kingdom of God, and all thefe things {hall be added unto
you fear not but that God fhall make thy houfehold as a flourifhing tree,
and thy wife fhallbe as a fruitful vine. Farewell, remember my poor counfel,
and be happy. From thy true friend, F. B.
N. B. To enable thee the better to comprehend this Book, I have drawn
out the various figures, of which mention is made in this work, that thou
mayeft fee the very exaCt method of working likewife the images of feals,
;
fpirits, and various other rare, and curious inftruments, which are neceflary
for thee to know and fee with the eye therefore in the conftruCtion of
;
them thou canft not be liable to error.
Fig. 1. The form of the cryftal for invocating fpirits, with the plate of
pure gold in which the cryftal muft be faftened, with the divine characters
around.
Fig- 2,134- A CAUTION TO THE INEXPERIENCED, &C« Book II.
A DE
Fig. 2. magical circle (C F), ofa fimple conftru&ion, for the operator
to Hand or fit in when he calleth the fpirits.
Fig. 3. The cryftal (A), two filver or other candlefticks (G G,) with the
wax tapers burning, and tripod or vefiel for the oderiferous fuffumigation.
Fig. 4. A wand of black ebony with golden chara&ers. The chara&ers are
explained.
A Caution to the inexperienced in this Art, and a Word ofAdviceto
thofe who would be Adepts.
BROTHER,
IT is neceffary for me to inform thee, that whatever thy defires are in the
purfuit of this art, which we call Magic, fo wilt thy connexion and anfwer be.
If in the purfiiit of revenge, it is but proper thou fhouldeft know that thou
wilt, in any of thefe experiments he¥e laid down, draw to thyfelf a revengeful
demon, or an infernal furious fpirit, ferving in the principle of the wrath of
God if worldly riches and aggrandizement, then fhalt thou have an earthial
;
or fiery fpirit, which will delude thee with the riches of the central world;
iffame, or the blaze ofglory, then thefpirits ojpride will bealloted thee, who
will gratify thy inordinate defire of vain glory for all thefe offices are there
;
fpirits allotted and will be eager to mix with thy fpirit : it will attradl thee to
his own nature, and ferve all thy purpofes according to the extent of God’s
permiffion and as thy defires are and from what principle they proceed, fo
;
fhalt thou be anfwered but if thou defireft to know nothing but for the ho-
:
nour and glory of God, and the help of thy neighbour, and, in great humility,
fill thy heart with the love of God, thou fhalt then have a pure fpirit which
will.
Part IV. TRITHEMIUS*S BOOK OF SECRETS, 5CC. I3S
r
will grant (by the Lord’s permifiion) thy delires. Therefore feek for that
which is good ; avoid all evil either in thought, word, or aCtion ; pray to God
to fill thee with wifdom, and then thou fhalt reap an abundant harveft.
There are two ways magically fet before thee chufe which thou wilt, thou
;
fhalt be fure of thy reward. Fareweh
London 1800. F. B.
,
Ofthe making of the Crystal and the Form of Preparation for a
Vision.
PROCURE
ofa lapidary a good clear pellucid cryftal, ofthe bignefs ofa
fmall orange, u e. about one inch and a half in diameter ; let it be glo-
bular or round each way alike ; then, when you have got this cryftal, fair and
clear, without any clouds or fpecks, get a fmall plate of pure gold to encom-
pafs the cryftal round one half > let this be fittedon an ivory or ebony pedeftal,
as you may feemorefully defcribed in the drawing, (fee the Plate, fig. 1.) Let
&
there be engraved a circle (A) round the cryftal with thefe characters around
*
infide the circle next the cryftal ; afterwards the
name 4* Letragrammaton” On the other fide of the plate let there be engra-
ven “ Michael, Gabriel Uriel, Raphael which are the four principal angels
,
ruling over the Sun, Moon Venus and Mercury but on the table on which the
, ;
cryftal ftands the following names, characters, &c. muft be drawn in
order.
Firft, The names of the feven planets and angels ruling them, with their
feals or characters. The names of the four kings of the four corners of the
earth. Let them be all written within a double circle, with a triangle
on a table j on which place the cryftal on its pedeftal : this being done,
thy: ,,
136 TRITHEMIUS’S BOOK Or Book II.
thy table is complete (as in the Fig. D,) and fit for the calling ofthe fpirits;
after which thou fhalt proceed to experiment, thus
In what time thou wouldefl deal with the fpirits by the table and cryjlal
thou muft obferve the planetary hour and whatever planet rules in that hour,
;
the angel governing the planet thou fhalt call in the manner following but,
;
firfi, fay this fhort prayer:
“ Oh, God wdio art the author of all good things, /Lengthen, I befeech
i
thee, thy poor fervant, that he may fland fafl, without fear, through this deal-
ing and work ; enlighten, I befeech thee, oh Lord ! the dark underflanding
of thy creature, fo that his fpiritual eye may be opened to fee and know thy
angelic fpirits defcending here in this cryflal (Then lay thy handon the cryjlal
:
faying,) and thou, oh inanimate creature ofGod, be fandtified and confecrated,
and blefied to this purpofe, that no evil phantafy may appear in thee; or, if
they do gain ingrefs into this creature, they may be conftrained to fpeak intel-
ligibly, and truly, and without the leafl ambiguity, for Chrifl’s fake. Amen .
And forafmuch as thy fervant here /landing before thee, oh. Lord defires
!
neither evil treafures, nor injury to his neighbour, nor hurt to any living crea-
ture, grant him the power of defcrying thofe celeflial fpirits or intelligences,
that may appear in this cryflal, and whatever good gifts (whether the power
of healing infirmities, or of imbibing wifdom, or difcovering any evil likely to
afflidl any perfon or family, or any other good gift thou mayefl be pleafed to
beflow on me, enable me, by thy wifdom and mercy, to ufe whatever I may
receive to the honour of thy holy name. Grant this for thy fon Chrifl’s fake.
Amen”
Then taking your ring and pentacle, put the ring on the little finger
ofyour righthand hang the pentacle round thy neck [Note, the pentacle may
; ;
be either wrote on clean virgin parchment, or engraven on a fquare plate of
filver and fufpended from thy neck to the breafl), then take your black ebony
CDEFj)
wand, with the gilt characters on it and trace the circle, (Fig. 7.
faying, “ In the name of the blefied Trinity, I confecrate this piece of
ground for our defence fo that no evil fpirit may have power to break thefe
;
bounds prefcribed here, through Jefus Chrifl our Lord,” Amen
.
Then,
PartIV. SECRET THINGS, &C, I37
Then place the veflel for the perfumes between thy circle and the holy
table on which the crydal (lands, and, having fire therein, call in thy per-
fumes, faying
“ I conjure thee, oh thou creature of fire 1 by him who created all things
both in heaven and earth, and in the fea, and in every other place whatever,
that forthwith thou cad away every phantafm from thee, that no hurt what-
foever (hall be done in any thing. Blefs, oh Lord, this creature of fire, and
fanflify it that it may be blefled, and that they may fill up the power and virtue
oftheir odours fo neither the enemy, nor any falfe imagination, may enter
;
into them; through our Lord Jefus Chrift. Amen”
Now, this being done in. the order prefcribed, take out thy little book,
which mud be made about feven inches long, of pure white virgin vellum or
paper, likewife pen and ink mud be ready to write down the name, charatter,
and office, likewife the feal or image of whatever fpirit may appear (for this I
mud tell you that it does not happen that the (ame fpirit you call will always
appear, for you mud try the fpirit to know whether he be a pure or impure
being, and this thou (halt eafily know by a firm and undoubted faith in God.)-
Now the mod pure and fimple way ofcalling the fpirits or fpirit is by a fhort
oration to the fpirit himfelf,, which is more effedtual and eaiy to perform than
compofing a table of letters for all celedial operations, the more pure
;
and unmixed they are, the more they are agreeable to the celedial fpirits:
therefore, after the circle is drawn, the book,perfumes, rod, &c. in readinefs,
proceed as follows :
(After noticing the exad: hour of the day,, and what angel rules that hour,,
thou (halt fay,.)
In the name of the blefied and holy Trinity, I do defire thee,, thou drong
a nd mighty angel *, Michael, that ifit be the divine will of him who i$ called
Tetragrammaton, &c. the Holy God, the Father, that thou take upon thee
fome (hape as bed becometh thy celedial nature, and appear to us vifibly here
in tlxis crydal, and anfwer our demands in as far as we (hall not tranfgrefs the
*Qr any other angel or fpirit,
Book II. T boundsx3 8 TRITHEMIUS’S BOOK OF Book II.
bounds of the divine mercy and goodnefs. by requeding unlawful knowledge
;
but that thou wilt gracioudy fhew us what things are moil profitable for us to
know and do, to the.glory and honour of his divine Majedy, who liveth and
reigneth, world without end. Amen.
“ Lord, thy will be done on earth, as it is in heaven make clean our
hearts within us, and take not thy Holy Spirit from us.
“ O Lord, by thy name, we have called him, fuffer him to adminider unto
us. And that all things may work together for thy honour and glory, to
whom with thee, the Son, and bleded Spirit, be afcribed all might, majedy and
dominion. Amen."
Note, In thefe dealings, two fhould always be prefent ; for often a fpirit is
manifest to one in the crydal when the other cannot perceive him therefore
j
mod
if any fpirit appear, as there likely will, to one or both, fay,
“ Oh, Lord we return thee our hearty and fincere thanks for the hearing of
!
our prayer, and we thank thee for having permitted thy fpirit to appear unto
us which we, by thy mercy, will interrogate to our further inftrudtion, through
Ghrid. Amen"
Interrog. i. In the name of the holy and undefiled Spirit, the Father, the
begotten Son, and Holy Ghod, proceeding from both, what is thy true
name
?
If the fpirit anfwers, Michael, then proceed.
Qued. 2. What is thy office ? 3. What is thy true fign or character ?
4. When are the times mod agreeable to thy natdre to hold conference
with us
? i
Wilt thou fwear by the blood and righteoufnefs ofour Lord Jefus Chrid, that
thou art truly Michael ?
(Here let him fwear, then write down his feal or character in thy book, and
againd it, his office and times to be called, through God’s name ; alfo write
down any thing he may teach thee, or any refponfes he may make to thy quef-
tions or interrogations, concerning life or death, arts or fciences, or any other
thing and then dialt thou fay.
;)
“ Thou2
PartIV. SECRET THINGS, &C.
139
“ Thou great and mighty fpirit, inafmuch as thou cameft in peace and in
the name of the ever bleffed and righteous Trinity, fo in this name thou
mayeft depart and return to us, when we call thee in his name to whom every
knee doth bow down. Fare thee well, Michael y peace be between us, through
our bleffed Lord Jefus Chrift. Amen”
Then will the fpirit depart ; then fay, “ To God the Father, eternal Spirit,
fountain ofLight, the Son, and Holy Ghoft, be all honour and glory, world
”
without end.. Amen
I fhall here fet down the Table of the names ofSpirits and Planets govern-
ing the Hours fo thou fhalt eafily know by infpedtion, what Spirit and
;
Planet governs every Hour of the Day and Night in the Week*
Angels and Angels and Angels and Angels and Rngels and Angels and Asgels and4
Planets Planets- Planets Planets Planets Planets, Planets
Hours ruling ruling. -ruling ruling ruling ruling ruling
Day. Sunday. Monday. Tuesday. Wednesday Thursday. Friday. Saturday..
Day. Day. Day.. Day. Day. Day. Day.
I O Michael D Gabriel $ Samael g Raphael If Sachiel ? Anael b Caffiel
2 $ Anael b Cafliel © Michael 4) Gabriel $ Samael g Raphael If Sachiel
3 g Raphael H- Sachiel 2 Anael b Caffiel © Michael h Gabriel S Samael
4 D Gabriel J Samael £ Raphael If Sachiel 5 Anael b Caffiel © Michael
5 b Caffiel 0 Michael j) Gabriel $ Samael £ Raphael 14 Sachael £ Anael
6 If Sachiel ? Anael b Caffiel Q Michael "]) Gabriel <? Samael § Raphael
7 $ Samael g Raphael 74 Sachiel 2 Anael b Caffiel O Michael j Gabriel
8 O Michael D Gabriel £ Samael $ Raphael If Sachael 2 Anael b Caffiel
9 ? Anaed b Cafliel © Michael 5 Gabriel $ Samael ? Raphael If Sachiel1
10 $ Raphael V- Sachiel’ £ Anael b Cafliel © Michael D Gabriel $ Samael
11 ]) Gabriel <? Samael £ Raphael If Sachiel 5 Anael b Caffiel O Michael
1 b Caffiel O Michael' h Gabriel $ Samael $ Raphael' If Sachiel 2 Anael
Hours 1
Night Night. Night. Night. Night . N.igkt. Night.' Night.
1 14. Sachael 2 Anael 4-1 Ca,ffieh © Michael 5 Gabriel, $ Samael £ Raphael
2 $ Satniel $ Raphael If Sachiel $ Anael b Caffiel © Michael •j Gabriel
3 O Michael S Gabriel $ Samael. £ Raphael If Sachiel. 2 Anael b Caffiel
4 5 Anael b Caflieb Q Michael )) Gabriel $ Samael- g Raphael If Sachiel
5 $ Raphael! 14 Sachiel y Anael b Caffiel © Michael. J Gabriel $ Samael
6 D Gabriel $ Sitmael £ Raphael Of Sachiel 2 Anael b Caffiel © Michael
7 b Cafliel. O Michael D Gabriel. $ Samael g Raphael 14 Sachiel 2 Anael
8 14 Sachiel $ Anael b CalTiel © Michael D Gabriel. cf Samael g Raphael
9 IO G $ . S M a i m c a h e ae l l § P R G a a p b h r a i e el l I $ f S b a a c m h a i e e l l g 2 A R n a a p e h l ael I b f S C a a c f h fi i e e l l © 2 A M n i a c e h l ael b J) C G a a f b l r ie i l el
1.1 ? Anael b Cafliel © Michael ]) Gabriel $ Samael $ Raphael If hachiel
IX $ Raphael If Sachiel ? Anael b Caffiel © Michtiel D Gabriel $ Samael
T
2 Nate,,
140 TRITHEMIUS’S BOOK OF SECRET THINGS. Book IJ
Note, The day is divided into twelve equal parts, called Planetary Hours,
reckoning from fun-rife to fun-fet, and, again, from the fetting to the
rifing; and to find the planetary hour, you need but to divide the natural
hours by twelve, and the quotient gives the length of the planetary hours and
odd minuets, which fiiews you how long a fpirit bears rule in that day j as
Michael governs the firfi: and the eighth hour on Sunday, as does the o. After
you have the length of the firfi: hour, you have only to look in the Table,
as if it be the fourth hour, on Sunday, you fee in theTable that the j and
Gabriel rules ; and fo for the refi: it being fo plain and eafy you cannot err.
THE CONCLUSION OF THE MAGUS.
ADVERTISEMENT.
THE Author ofthis Work refpeltfully informs thofe who are curious in the Jludies ofArt and Nature , efpt-
ciallyofNaturaland Occult Philofophy, Chemijlry, Ajlrology, (Sc. life. that , hawingbeen indefatigable in his
refearchesinto thofe fublime Sciences, of which he has treatedat large in this Book, that he gives private
infiruftions andledures uponany ofthe above-mentioned Sciences; in the courfe ofwhich he willdifcover many
curious andrare experiments, Thofe who become Students will be initiatedinto the choicefe operations ofNaiu-
ral Philofophy, NaturalMagic, the Cabala, Chemijlry , the Talifmanic Art, HermeticPhilofophy, Aferology
Phyfognomy, &c.&c. Likewife they willacquire the knowledge of the Rites, Myfteries, Ceremonies, and
—
Principles of the ancientPhilofophers, Magi, Cabalifs, Adepts, £sV. The purpofe of this School (which
willconftft ofnogreater number than Twelve StudentsJ being toinvefeigate thehidden treafures ofNatures to
bringthe Mindto a contemplation of the Eternal Wifdom topromote the difcovery ofwhatever may conduce
to theperfection of Man 1 the alleviating the miferies andca ; lamities ofthis life, both in refperi of ourfelves
andothers; thefudy ofmorality and religion here, in order tofecure to ourfelves felicity hereafter; and,
finally, the promulgation of whatever may conduce to the getteral happinefs and welfare ofmankind. -
Thofe whofeeltbemfelves thoroughly difpofedto enter uponfuchacourfeofJludies, as is above recited, with the
fame principles ofphilanthropywith which the Author invites the lovers ofphilofophy andwifdom, to incor-
porate themfelves infofeledl, permanent , anddeferable afociety, mayfpeak with the Author upon thefubjeri,
at any time between the hours ofEleven and Two o'clock, at 99 Norton Street, MaTy-le-Bonne.
Letters (pofe paid) uponany fubjeCl treatedofin this Book, vjill be duly anfwered, with the necejfary in-
formation., : :
BIOGRAPHIA ANTIQUA;
O R,
AN ACCOUNT OF THE LIVES AND WRITINGS
OF THE ANCIENT AND MODERN
MAGI, CABALISTS, AND PHILOSOPHERS,
DISCOVERING THE
PRINCIPLES AND TENETS OF THE FIRST FOUNDERS
OF THE
MAGICAL AND OCCULT SCIENCES
WHEREIN THE MYSTERIES OF THE PYTHAGOREANS, GYMNOSOPHISTS, EGYPTIANS, BRAGMANNI,
BABYLONIANS, PERSIANS, ETHIOPIANS, CHALDEANS, ice. ARE DISCOVERED
Including aparticularand intereftingAccountof
ZOROASTER, THE SON OF OROMASIUS,
THE FIRST INSTITUTOR OF PHILOSOPHY BY FIRE, AND MAGIC
5
t
LIKEWISE OF
HERMES TRISMEGISTUS, THE EGYPTIAN,
And other Philofophers famousfor their Learning Piety, and Wifdom.
, ,
TO WHICH IS ADDED,
A SHORT ESSAY,
Proving that the Firft Chriftianswere Magicians, who foretold, acknowleged, and worfhipped
THE SAVIOUR OF THE WORLD,
AND
FIRST FOUNDER OF THE CHRISTIAN RELIGION\
5ZOROASTER, THE SON OF OROMASIUS,
FIRST INSTITUTOR OF PHILOSOPHY BY FIRE, AND MAGIC*
OROASTER,
the fon of Oromafius, flourifhed in the reign of Darius,
the fucceffor of Cambyfes. * All authors are full of variarions in their
accounts of this famous perfon, fome making him of a much later date than
others; however, we fhall give what we have collected from thofe who
appear moft authentic, not omitting the traditional hiftory extant amongft the
Magi, with which our readers may compare the feveral ftories of biographers,
and accept that account which fhall feem to them the moft rational. Zo-
roafter, king of the Badtrians, was vanquifhed by Ninus, and paffedfor thein-
ventorofmagic Eufebius places this vidloryof Ninus in the feventhyear of
-f*.
Abraham
:
* The Author regrets, that, notwithftanding his laborious refearches to obtain an authentic and
fatisfa&ory account of Zoroafterto prefent to his readers that a few generals, and -not particulars,
;
can only be given : indeed, the moft ferious and refpetftable hiftorians differ fo widely in theiraccounts
of him, that nothing certain can from thence be deduced : however, we have above recited feveral
authorities to which we haveannexed various notes and commentations.
—
-j- Faffedfor the inventor ofmagic. It is to be noted that he was the inventor of it, and the firft of
the magi. Juftin informs us that this victory was the laft of Ninus that Zoroafter philofophized
;
moftjudicioufly upon the nature and influencesof the ftars, and on the principles of the univerfe.
Thomas Stanleius, Hift. of Philof. Orientalis, lib. I. cap. iii. informs us,_that Zoroafter, according to
Eufebius, was cotemporary with Semiramis ; but it is certain, according to Eufebius, that he wras
“
vanquifhedby king Ninus. Arnobius, lib. i. pa. m. 5. fays, Anciently the Aflyrians and Badhians,
r ‘ the formerunder the conduct of Ninus, and the latter under Zoroafter, fought againft each other,
“ not only with men and weapons, but alfo by the help of magic, and the fecret difeipline of the
“ Chaldeans.” Hermippus, who has wrote cautioufly on every thing relative to magic, and
explained twenty thoufand-verfes compofed by Zoroafter, relates, that one AzonaceB initiated
hkm;
BIOGRAPHIA ANTIQUA.
144
Abraham ; now feveral authors make Zoroafter appear much earlier. It has
been reported that Zoroafter laughed on the fame day he was born,, and that
he
him into this art, and that he lived 5,000 years before the Trojan war. St. Auguftin and'
Orofius have followed the tradition mentioned by Juftin. Apuleius, in his Catalogue of all the
moft famous Magicians of Antiquity, with great juftice places Zoroafter in the firft rank, and.
proves him the moft ancient of all : “ Magicarum artium fuijfe perbiieter inventor Zoroaftra." Auguftin,
de Civitat. Dei, lib. 21. cap. xiv. Eudoxus, who efteemedthe art of magic to beaccounted the nobleft
and moft; ufeful of all worldly knowledge, relates that Zoroafter lived fix thoufand years before the
death of Plato. Note, that the fame thing is affirmed by Ariftotle. Agathias, who lived in the reign
of Juftinian, informs us, that, accotding to the Perfians of that time, Zoroafter and Hyftafpes were
cotemporary ; but they do not fay whether this Hyftafpes was father to Darius or any other. , Sir John
Marftiam politively decides that he was the father of Darius and grounds his opinion on this, thatone
;
of the elogies engraven on the tomb makes him the inftruftor ofthe Magi and that the fame hiftorian
;
who makes Hyftafpes excel in magic, calls him the fatherof Darius. Atnmianus Marcellinus, lib. 23,
pag. m. 324. fays, “ After the time of Zoroafter, reigned Hyftafpes, a very prudent king, and the
“ father of Darius. This prince, having boldly penetrated into the remoteft parts of the Upper India,
4‘ came at length to a folitary foreft, where there dwelt, in filent and awful tranquility, the Brachmans.
*' In this peaceful folitude they inftrufted him in the knowledge of the earth’s motion, likewife of the
“ liars ; and from them he learned the pure and facred rites of religion. Part of this knowledge he
“ communicated to the Magi, which, together with the art ofpredicting future events, they delivered
41 downto pofterity, each in his own family. The great number of men who have defeended from
“ thefe families, ever fince that age down to the prefent, have all been fet apart for cultivating the
“ knowledge of the Gods.” But Ammian.us Mercellinus was wrong in faying, that this father of Da-
rius was a king and no doubt he committed this blunder by having read in general that one king
;
Hyftafpes was a great magician, and thought there was no other Hyftafpes than the father of Darius.
But it is beyond difput.e, that one Hyftafpes, older than the foundation of Rome, and a greatprophet. Is
mentioned by authors. “ Hyftafpes alfo, the moft ancient kingofthe Medcs, and from whom theriver
“ Hyftafpes derives itsname, isthe moftadmirable ofthem all for, underthe interpretation ofthe pro*
;
“ phecy of a boy, he informed pofterity that the Roman empire, nay, even the Roman name, Ihouldbe
“ utterly deftroyed; and this hepredictedalong time before the eftablifhment ofthat colonyofTrojans,”
Laftant. lib. VII. cap. xv. pag. m. 492. Juftin Martyr informs us, that he predifted the general con-
flagration of all penftiable things, Juftin Apolog. ii. pag. 66. It is affirmed that Pythagoras was Zo-
roafter’s difciple, under the reign of Cambyfes, the fon of Cyrus the words of Apuleius inform us of
:
the raft. Some fay that Pythagoras having been made a Have in Egypt, was tranfported into Perfia
others will have him tranfported into Babylon, and there inftrufted by Zoroafter the Babylonian*
whom they diftinguifh from the Perfian. We find no lefs than five Zoroafters mentioned in hiftory : to
thefe fivemaybe added a fixth, mentioned by Apuleius. This Zoroafterlived in Babylonat the time Py-
thagoras was brought thither by Cambyfes. The fame writer calls him “ the chief interpreterof all
divine myfteries,” and fay* that Pythagoras waschiefly inftrufted by him. He appears to be the fame
withZOROASTER, THE $ON OF OROMASIUS. *45
lie was the only one to whom this happened, and that the palpitation of his
brain was fo ftrong as to repulfe the hand, it being laid to his head, which they
fey was a prefage ofhis future knowledge and wifdom. It is added, that he
palled twenty years in the deferts, and there eat nothing but a fort of cheefe
which was never the worfe for age that the love ofwifdom and juftice obliged
;
him to retire from the World to a mountain, where he lived in folitude; but
when he come down from thence there fell a celeftial fire upon it, which per-
petually burned; that the king of Perfia, accompanied with the greateft lords
ofhis court, approached it for the purpofe of putting up prayers to God that
;
Zoroafter came out from thefe flames unhurt thathe comforted andencouraged
;
the Perfians, and offered facrifices for them to God that, afterwards, he did
;
Hot live indifferently with all forts of men, but only thofe who were born for
truth, and who were capable of the true knowledge of God, which kind of
people are called among the Perfians, Magi that he defired his end might be
;
this, viz. to be ftruck, with thunder, and con-fumed by celeftial fire and that
;
he requefted the Perfians to colled: his allies, after he was confumed in this
manner, and to preferve and venerate them as a pledge of the prefervation of
their monarchy that they for a length of time paid great veneration to the
;
relics of Zoroafter, but at length, negleding them, their monarchy fell to
ruin and decay*. The Chronicle of Alexandria adds,, that having held this
difeourfe
withZabratus,bywhomDiogenes affirmsPythagoraswas purged from all hisformer filth, and inftrudled
in what is effentially neceffary for good men to know, viz. God, nature, and philofophy : he is alfo
the fame with Nazaratus, the Aflyrian, whom Alexander, in his book of the Pythagorical fymbois,
affirms to have taught Pythagoras. The fame perfon Suidas calls Zares, GyrHius, Zaranes, and
Plutarch, Zarates.
* According tothe tradition ofthe Magi, we fhall explain this fabulous and figurative defeription of
Zoroalter’s. end. The truth is, he enjoined the Perfians rigidly to perfevere in the laws he had framed,
andthedo&rinehe had been atthe labour to eftablilh, which wa’s, tolive in the pradfice ofmoral virtue,
to avoid all fpecies ofluxury, to promote the liberal fciences, to govern all their adtions with prudence
and integrity, and to meet misfortune with refolution, andtoencounteritwithphilofophy, andtoendure
the unavoidable calamities oflife with fortitude : thefe, his difeiplines, he left as a-precious relic among
them ; which while they ftridtly adhered to, they need be under no apprehenfion of tyranny and
U
oppreffion %146 BIOGRAPHIA ANTIQUA.
difcourle with them he invoked Orion, and was confuted by celeftia! £re„
Many will have it that Ham was the Zoroafler of the caflern nations, and the
inventor of magic. Mr. Bochart refutes this falflty. Cedrenus obferves that
Zoroafler, who became fo famous for wifdom among the Perfians, was defcended
from Belus this imports that he was defcended from Nimrod. Some authors
:
have taken him for Nimrod others for Affur or Japhet. The ancient Perfians
;
believe that Zoroafler was before Mofes Some maintain he was the prophet
Ezekiel, and it cannot be denied that they ground their opinionson the agree-
ment of numerous particulars which belong to the one, and are related of the
other. George Hornius foolifhly imagines that he was the falfe prophet
Balaam. Huetius fhews that he was the Mofes of the Jews, and mentions an
infinite number of particulars in which the accounts we have of Mofes agree
—
with the flories related of Zoroafler. How near all or any of thefe come to
the probability of truth will appear in the fequel, where we have given the
mofl probable and rational account of him, as far as we have been able to
trace, from the tradition of the Magi, which we prefer before the confufed
and partial accounts vulgarly extant. They who believe that Zoroafler pro-
—
oppreflion : thefe they colledled, and for fome (pace of time religioufly followed the precepts of this
great philofopher: at length, human frailty and vice, corrupting their manners, caufed them to relax
from their duties, upon which their empire fell into ruin and decay. The idolatry falfely imputed to
—
this wife man, viz. his inftituting the worfhipping offire, is thustobe interpreted. Under the celeflial
—
fymbol offire was meant truth : truth he afcribed purely as the great and wonderful attribute of the
Godhead, which he acknowledged and worfliipped, to wit, one only God, the eternal fire ofwifdom and
everlafting truth, juftice, and mercy !—His magic was the fludy ofthe religious worfhip ofthat Eternal
Being. After Zoroafler, there were four perfous chofen to educate thefucceffor of the king of Perfia.
They chofe the wifeft, the mofljuft, the mofttemperate, and thebraveft man that could be found. The
wifeftman {viz.one oftheMagi), inftrudledhiminZoroafter’smagic, thejuftingovernment,thebravein
war, and the temperate in focial virtue andtemperance. Now obferve,that Zoroafleris calledthe fonof
Oromafius, and that Oromafius is the name given by Zoroafler and his diciples to the good God, and
this title was really bellowed upon him by the Perfians ; therefore, according to Plato, this Perfian
Magus, on account ofhis uncommon learning, religion, and wifdom, was, inanallegoricalorfigurative
manner, called the fon ofGod, or the fon of wifdom, truth, isfc.
* Some Magi affirm that he is the fame with Abraham, and frequently call him Ibrahim Zerdafcht,
which i», Abraham the friend offire.
felTed-
ZOROASTER, THE SON OF OROMASIUS.
I4JT
fefied andtaught a diabolical magic * are certainly in the wrong; the magic he
taught (ofwhich we fhall fpeak more anon) was only the ftudy of the divine
nature, and ofreligious worfhip. Some have prefumed that Zoroafter was the
promulgator ofa dodtrine oftwo principles-fv or two co-eternal caufes, one of
good
* The preceding note fully explains thoftr erroneous relations ofthe wifdom ofthe Magi. Thofe
svho defire to fee a great many paflages which teftify that the magic of the Perfians, inftituted by
Zoroafter, was the ftudy ofreligion, virtue, and wifdom, let them refer to Brijfonius Je Regno Perjarum,
lib. ii.p. 178, fcq. edit..Commel. 159; ; likewifeJul. Caefar,BullengerusEclog. ad Arnobium, p. 346,.
fcf feq. Nor are we ignorant that Gabriel Naude hath moftlearnedlyand folidlyjuftified our Zoroafter
againft the ignorant imputations ofnecromancy, black art,
+ It has been much contended by philofophers whether Zoroafter was the firft fuggefter of this
do&rine ofthe two principles: the one called bytheMagi,Oromafes the good, and Arimanius the evil
principle. It is certain Zoroafter afferted the one, viz. thatofthe good, or an eflential uncreated felf
exiftent principle, the caufecfall good, called by him Oromafus, meaning a good God,&c. In refpeft’
ofthe other principle, Arimanius, we muft, before we decide either for or againft Zoroafter, confider
the nature ofthe thing in its moft impartial fenfe.
Thofewho everread Mr.Bernard’s Journal {Nouve/ltsdelaRepubliqueJes hettre's Feb. 17OT, andMarch
,
1701, Art. Hi. 1. i.) needs not be informed that the Hiftoria Religionis veterum Perfarum, publillied by
Dr. Hyde (profeflbr ofthe oriental languages in the univerfity ofOxford) at Oxford, in theyear 1700^
4to » is one ofthe moftexcellentpieces thatcould poflibly be written on fuch a fubjed. The idea which
the learned journalift hath given ofthis performance is fufficient to convince us that it contains a very
curious erudition, and profound difeuflions, which difeover many rare and uncommonqjarticulars ofa
countrywhich we fcarce knew any thing ofbefore. Butto come to the point : Dr. Hyde alfirms, that
the ancientPerfians acknowledge no more than one uncreatedprinciple, which was the good principle,
or, in one word, God : and that they looked upon the evil principle as a created being. One of the
names, or attributes, which they gave to God, was Hormizda and they called the evil principle,
;
Ahariman ; and this is the originalof the two Greek words, tyopArtic and Amipwios. 0ne of which was
the name of the good, and the otherof the evil, principle, as we have feen above, in a paffage of
Plutarch. The Perfians affirmed that Abraham was the firft founder of their religion. Zoroafter
afterwards made fome alterations in it ; but it is faid he made no mannerof changewith relation to the
dotftrine ofone foie uncreated principle, but that the only innovation in this particular was the giving
thename ofLight to the good principle, and thatof Datknefs to the evilone-.
,
Froma mifeonftruftion putupon the dodtrineofthe Magi,fomeconfiderahlomifreport3-oftheirtenets
h^ve been propagated : I think none more curious than thefollowing—“ That a war arofe betwixt the
army oflight and that ofdatknefs, which at laft ended in an accommodation, of-which the angels were
mediators, and the conditions were that the inferior world (hould be wholly left to the government of
Arimanius for the fpace of 7000 years, after which it fhould be reftored to light. Before the peace,
Arimaniushadexterminated all the inhabitants oftheworld. Lighthadcalledmentoitsaffiftancewhile
\J 3 they148 BIOGRAPHIA ANTIQUA.
good, the other ofevil things. Of this do&rine Plutarch takes notice : he fays,
** that Zoroafter the magician, who is faid to have lived five thoufand years
“
before the Trojan war, called the good God, Oromazes, and the evil, Arima-
“ &
nius, &c. &c.” See Plut. de Ifide Ofiride, page 369.
Dr. Hyde, in his excellent treatife on the religion of the ancient Perfians,
cites fome authors who clear him on this head. We fhall examine whether
they deferve credit. It is affirmed that he was no idolater, either with refpedt
to the worfhip of fire, or that of Mithra % What appears leafi: uncertain,
amongft:
r
they were yetbut fpirits; which it did, either to draw them out ofArimanius’ territories, orin orderto
give them bodies to engage againft this enemy. They accepted the bodies and the fight, on condition
they fhould be affilled by the light, and fhould at laft overcome Arimanius. The refurreftion fhall come
when he fhall be vanquished. This they conclude was the caufe ofthe mixture, and fhall be the caufc
ofthe deliverance. TheGreeks were not ignorant that Zoroafter taught a future refurredtion.
* The ancient Perfian Magi never did divine honours to thefun orany ofthe ftars. They maintain
they do not adore the fun, but diredt themfelves towards it when they pray to God. It has been found
amongft Zoroaftcr’s fecret precepts, that we ought to falute the fun, but not that we fliould adore him
with religious worfhip. He provesthat their ceremonies might very juftly pafs forcivil honours, and to
this purpofe he makes fome exceeding curious obfervations. He applies to the fire what he fays of the
fun. The bowings and proftrations ofthe Perfians before the holy firewere not a religious obfervation,
but only a civil one. The fame thing muft be attributed to their reported worfhip of fire, which, as I
have faid above, theykept in their Pyrea in imitation ofthe Jews. For though theypaid a certain reve-
rence to the fire, and that by proftration, yet this was not a religious, only a civil, worfhip ; as it is from
the force ofcuftom tisat the eaftern people proftrate themfelves before any great man (fo they might
;
with as much propriety be faid to adore or worfhip him.) Believe me we ought to be the laft to cenfure
the eaftern people with fuch grofs idolatry as has been reprefented. The Perfians, who have always
been devoted to the higheft ftudyofwifdom, performed their duties in life forthe honour oftheir God ;
and, although unenlightened and Barbarians, lived as men, and notas irrational creatures: whereas we,
who know our duty fo well, yet pra£life it fo ill : for I may tftily fay, that notwithftanding the great
benefits we derive from the divine preceptsofChriftianity, yet I believe it will be found an incontro-
vertible fa£l that man to man is a ferpent, a few individuals excepted. But to return to our fubjedt:
It was the ancient cuftom to fall proftrate to nngels, as being the meffengers and reprefentatives ofGod.
Befides, thereare manyexamplesofthis kind ofworfhip, notonlyinthe Old, butNew Teftamcnt, where
the women who had been converted to the true faith, upon feeing the angels at thefepulchre of Chrift,
fell with their faces to the ground and worfhipped. Yet they well knew that it was not God they faw,
but his angels, as appears from their own confeffion— we have feen a vifion of angels.” Therefore
they are wrongfully called Idolaters and worfhippersoffire, for Zoroafter was the inftrument of their
continuation in the true faith. He was a man who had the knowledge of the true God, whom he
peculiarly;
m
ZOROASTER, THE SON OF OROMASIUS.
amongft To many things that are related ofhim is, that he was the introducer
ofa new religion into Perlia, and that he did it about the reign of Darius the
fuccefior of Cambyfes : he is ftill in great veneration among thofe Perfians
who are not of the Mahometan religion, but ftill retain the ancient worfhip of
their country. They call him Zardhuft, and feveral believe that he came
from China, and relate many miraculous things on that head. Several authors
affirm, that all the books publifhed hitherto under Zoroafter’s name, fome of
which are yet extant, are fuppofititious. Dr. Hyde difients from this opinion.
.Suidas affirms, that there were extant four books of Zoroafter : the firft, “ Of
Nature,” abook ofthe Virtues ofprecious Stones, called de Gemmis and five
j
books ofAftrology andAftronomy, “ Praedidliones ex Infpedtione Stellarum.”
It is very likely that what Pliny relates, as quoted from Zoroafter, was taken
from thofe books, Plin. lib. xviii, cap. 24. Eufebius recites a paflage which
contains a magnificent defcription of God, and gives it as the very words of
Zoroafter in his facred commentary on the Perfian rites. Clemens Alexandri-
nus fays, that the followers of Prodicus boafted of having the feerets or fecret
books of Zoroafter. But moft likely he meant that they boafted of having
the fecret books ofPythagoras. They were printed, together with the verfes
ofthe Syhils at Amfterdam, in the year 1689, according to Opfopasus’s edition,
Oracula Magica Zoroaftris, cum Scholiis Plethonis & Pfelli.
peculiarly worfhippcd in a natural cave, in which he placed feveral fymbols reprefenting the world
Mithra, reprefenting the fun, filled the mafter’s place. But it was not Mithra, but the true God, that
he adored: and, laftly, as he was a true philofopher, a profound alchemift, greatly informed in all the
arts ofthe mathematics, flridt and auflere in his religion, he ftruck the Perfians with an admiration of
him, and bythefe means made them attentive to his do&rine. Thefumofallis,thathe livedinacave,
dedicated to the fervice ofGod, and the ftudy ofall natural and fupernatural knowledge that he was
;
divinely illuminated, knew the courfes ofthe ftars, and the occult and common properties of all com-
pounded and earthly things ; that by fire and Geometry (/. e. by Chemiftry and the Mathematics) he
inveftigated, proved, and demonftrated, the truth and purity, or elfe the fugac'ty and vilenefs, of all
things knowable in this mortal ftate ofhumanity. So that the fame, fagacity, wifdom, and virtue of
Zoroafterinduced fome certain men wickedly and fraudulently to impofe upon the unwary fome falfe
magical oracles,and diabolical inventions, written inGreek and Latin, fsV, as the genuine works of the
divine and illuftrious Zoroafter. <
HERMES,;
^50 BI06RAPHIA ANTIQUA. v
HERMES, SURNAMED TRISMEGISTUS,
OR THE
THRICE GREATEST INTELLIGENCER.
H
ERMES
Trifmegiftus, (who was the author of the divine Pymander and
fome other books,) lived fome time before Mofes. He received the
name of Trifmegiftus, or Mercurius ter Maximus, i. e. thrice greateft Intel-
ligencer, becaufe he was the firft intelligencer who communicated celeftiai
and divine knowledge to mankind by writing.
He was reported to have been king of Egypt without doubt he was an
:
Egyptian nay, if you believe the Jews, even their Mofes and for the juf*
j ;
tification of this they urge, ift. His being well lkilled in chemijlry nay, the
firft who communicated that art to the fons of men ; 2dly, They urge the
phtlofophic work viz. of rendering gold medicinal, or, finally, of the art of
,
making aurumpotabile and, thirdly, of teaching the Cabala which they lay
; y
was Ihewn him by God on Mount Sinai : for all this is confefied to be origi-
nally written in Hebrew, which he would not have done had he not been an
Hebrew, but rather in his vernacular tongue. But whether he was Mofes
or not*, it is certain he was an Egyptian, even as Mofes himfelf alfo was;
and therefore for the age he lived in, we lhall not fall fhort of the time if we
conclude he flourished much about the time of Mofes and if he really was
;
not the identical Mofes, affirmed to be fo by many, it is more than probable
that he was king of Egypt for being chief philofopher, he was, according
;
* The Cabalifts of the Hebrews affirm that Mofes was this Hermes and although meek, yet was a
;
man poffefled of the moft ferious giavity, and a profound fpeculator in chemiftry and divine magic ;
that he, by divine infpiration on the mount, became acquainted with the knowledge of all the natural
and fecret operations of nature j that be taught the tranfmutation of metals fer Cabala , i. t. by oral
tradition, to the Jews.
toHERMES TRISMEGISTUS. 15!
to the Egyptian cuftom, initiated into the myfteries of priefthood, and from
thence to the chief governor or king.
He was called Ter Maximus, as having a perfect knowledge of all things
contained in' the world (as his Aureus , or Golden Tradlate. and his Divine
v
Pymander fhews,) which things he divided into three kingdoms, viz. animal,
vegetable, and mineral in the knowledge and comprehenfion of which three
;
he excelled and tranfmitted to pofterity, in enigmas and-fymbols the profound
,
fecrets of nature likewife a true defcription of the Philofopher s Quinteffence
; ,
or Univerfal Elixir which he made as the receptacle of all celeftial and
,
terreftrial virtues. The Great Secret of the philofophers he difcourfed on,
which was found engraven upon a Smaragdine table, in the valley of
Ebron.
Johannes Fundtius, in his Chronology fays, he lived in the time of Mofes,
twenty-one years before the law was given in the wildernefs. Suidas feems
to confirm it by faying, “ Credo Mercurium Trifmegiftum fapientem Egyp-
“
tium fioruifie ante Pharaonem.” But this of Suidas may be applied to r
feveral ages, for that Pharaoh was the general name of their kings or pof-
;
fibly it might be intended before the name of Pharaoh was given to their
kings, which, if fo*, he makes Trifmegiftus to exift 400 years before Mofes,
yea, before Abraham’s defcent into Egypt. There is no doubt but that he
pofleifed the great fecret of the philofophic work and if God ever appeared
;
in man, he appeared in him, as is evident both from his books and his Py.
mander in which works he has communicated the fum of the abyfs, and the
;
divine knowledge to all pofterity by winch he has demonftrated himfelf to
;
have been not only an infpired divine, but alfo a deep philofopher, obtaining
his wifdom from God and heavenly things, and not from man.
* According tothebeft authorities to be taken, Hermes Trifmegiftus lived in the time of Pharaoh,
Ifrael’s tyrantand oppreffor, and was not the fame with Mofes who oppofed Jannes and Jambres.
APPOL-s BIOGRAPHIA ANTIQUA.
15
APPOLLONIUS TYANA,
OF
WITH SOMS ACCOUNT OF HIS
REMARKABLE MIRACLES, PROPHECIES, VISIONS, RELATIONS, &c. &e.
^^PPOLLONIUS
Tyanaeus, was one of the moft extraordinary perfons
that ever appeared in the world. He was bom at Tyana in Cappado-
,
cia, towards the beginning of the firft century. At fixteen years of age he
became a rigid difciple of Pythagoras, renouncing wine, jlejh and women,
,
wearing no fhoes, and letting his hair and beard grow long, and cloathing
himfelf only in linen : foon after he became a reformer, and fixed his abode
in a temple of iEfculapius, where many fick perfons reforted to be cured by
him. Being come to age, he gave part of his eftate to his eldeft brother,
and diftributed another part to his poor relations, and kept back only a very
fmall (hare to himfelf. He lived fix years without fpeaking a word, notwith-
ftanding during this filence he quelled feveral feditions in Cecilia and Pam-
philia that which he put a flop to at Afpenda was the moft difficult of all
;
to appeafe, becaufe the bufinefs was to make thofe hearken to reafon whom
famine had driven to revolt the caufe of this commotion was, fome rich
:
.men having monopolized all the corn^ occafioned an extraordinary fcarcity in
the city Appollonius flopped this popular commotion, without fpeaking a
}
word to the enraged multitude Appollonius had no occafion for words his
: ;
He
Pythagoric filence did all that the fineft figures of oratory could efFedt.
travelled much, profefied himfelf a legiflator underflood all languages,
;
without having learned them he had the furprifing faculty of knowing
:
what was tranfadled at an immenfe diftance, and at the time the Emperor
Domitian was ftabbed, Appollonius being at a vaft diftance, and Handing in the
!—
market-place of the city, exclaimed, “ Strike ! ftrike 'tis done, the tyrant
is——
APPOLLONIUS OF TYANA. m,
is no more.” He underftood the language of birds ; he condemned dancing,
and other diverfions of that fort; he recommended charity and piety; he
travelled almoffc over all the countries of the world and he died at a very
;
great age. His life has been fully related by Philoftratus ; but it contains fo
many fabulous relations that we do not pretend to introduce them in this
place. There are many who have very readily oppofed the miracles of this
man to thofe of Chrift, and drew a parallel between them. It cannot be
denied that this philofopher received very great honours, both during his life
and after his death and that his reputation continued long after paganifm.
;
He wrote four books of Judicial Aftrology, and a Treatife on Sacrifices,
Ihewing what was to be offered to the Deity.
We
* mufl not omit a circumftance which tends to the honour of this ve-
* nerable perfon. It is related that Aurelius had come to a refolution, and
* had publickly declared his intentions, to demolifh the city of Tyana but
;
* that Appollonius-of Tyana an ancient philofopher, of great renown and au-
,
* thority, a true friend of the gods, and himfelf honoured as a deity, appear-
* ed to h — im in his ufual form as he retired into his tent, and addrelfed him
* thus : “ Aurelian, if you defire to be victorious, think no more of the
4t deftruCtion of my fellow-citizens ! Aurelian , if you defire to rule, abftain
“
from the blood of the innocent ! Aurelian , if you will conquer, be mer-
“ ciful !” Aurelian being acquainted with the features of this ancient phi-
* lofopher, having feen his image in feveral temples, he vowed to ereCt a
* temple and flatues to him and therefore altered his refolution of facking
;
* Tyana. This account we have from men of credit, and have met with it
4 in books in the Olpian library and we are the more inclined to believe
;
* it on account of the dignity of Appollonius ; for was there ever any thing
4 among men more holy, venerable, noble, and divine than Appollonius ?
4 He reftored life to the dead ; he did and fpoke many things beyond hu-
* man reach which whoever would be informed of, may meet with many
;
* accounts of them in the Greek hiflories of his life.’ See Vopifcus in Au-
relian, cap. 24.
X
Laftly,biographia antiqua.
1 54 f
Laflly, the inhabitants of Tyana built a temple to their Appollonius after
his death his flatue was eredted in feveral temples the Emperor Adrian
; :
collected as many of his writings as he poffibly could, and kept them very
feledf, in his fuperb palace at Antium with a rare but fmall book of this
y
philofopher’s, concerning the Oracle of Trophonius. This little book was to
be feen at
Antmm
during the life of Philoftratus nor did any curiofity what-
;
ever render this fmall town fo famous as did this rare and extraordinary
book of Appollonius.
It is reported that a wife prince of the Indians, well {killed in magic, <
made feven rings ofthe feven planets, whichhe bellowed uponAppollonius,one
of which he wore every day by which he always maintained the health and
j
vigour of his youth, and lived to a very advanced age. His life was tranf-
lated from the Greek of Philofratus into French, by Blaife de Vignere^,
with a very ample commentary by Artus Thomas, Lord of Embry, a Pa-
rifian ; and fome time fince there has been made an Englifh tranflation ofhis
life, which was condemned, prohibited, and anathematized without reafon.
PETRUS:
05
[ ]
PETRUS de ABANO, or PETER of APONA,
&
DOCTOR OF PHILOSOPHY AND PHYSIC, feV. C. &C.
p-ETRUS APONENSIS, or Aponus, one of the moft famous philofophers
and phylicians of his time, was born A. D. 1250, in a village, fituated four
miles from Padua. He ftudied a long time at Paris where he was promoted
,
to the degrees of Doctor in philofophy and phylic, in the practice of whichhe
was very fuccefsful, but his fees remarkably high. Gabriel Naude in his
,
Antiquitate Scholce Medicce Parifienjis gives the following account of him
,
** Let us next produce Peter de Apona, or Peter de Abano, called the
“
Reconciler, on account of the famous book which he published during
—
“
his refidence in your univerfity It is certain that phyfic lay buried in
“ Italy, fcarce known to any one, uncultivated and unadorned, till its tutelar
genius, a villager of Apona , deftined to free Italy from its barbarifm and
“ ignorance, as Catnillus once freed Rome from the liege of the Gauls made
,
“ diligent enquiry in what part of the world polite literature was moll happily
“ cultivated, philofophy moll fubtilly handled, and phylic taught with the
“ greateft folidity and purity; and being allured that Paris alone laid claim to
“
this honour, thitherhe prefentlyflies giving himfelfup whollytohertutelage,
;
<( he applied himfelfdiligently to the myfteries ofphilofophyand medicine; ob-
** tained a degree and the laurel in both and afterwards taught them both with
;
“ greatapplaufe and aftera flay ofmanyyears,loadenwith the wealth acquired
:
“ amongyou, and, afterhavingbecome the mo ft famousphilofopher,aftrologer,
phyfician, and mathematician ofhis time, returns to his own country, where,
* Naude fakes notice ofthis in a fpeech io which he extols the ancient glory of the univerfity of
Paris. We have, above, recited his words at length, becaufe they incidentally inform us, that Peter de
Abano compofed that great work at Paris which procured him the apellation of the Reconciler.
X
2. in, ,
BIOGRAPHIA ANTJQUA.
“ in the opinion of the judicious Scardeon, he was the firft reflorer of true
“ philofophyand phyfic. Gratitude, therefore, calls upon you to acknowledge
“ your obligations due to MichcelAngelus Blondus, a phyfician of Rome who-
,
S£ in the laft century undertaking to publilh the Conciliationes Phyjiognomicce
“
ofyour Aponenfian dotftor, and finding they had been compofed at Paris
'
(< and in your univerfity, chofe to publifh them in the name, and under the
“ patronage, of your fociety.” ’Tis faid, that he was fufpedted of magic
and
* Naude, in his Apologyfor great Men accufed of Magic fays, “ The general opinion of almoftall
“ authors is, that he wasthe greateftmagicianofhistime thatby meansoffeven fpiiits, familiar, which
;
(< he kept inclofed in chryftal, he had acquired the knowledge ofthe fevenliberal arts, and that he had
“ the art of cauling the money he had made ufe ofto return again into his pocket. He was accufed of
,4 magic in the eightieth year ofhis age, and that dying in the year *305, before his trial was over, he
“ was condemned (as Cajlellan reports) to the fire
;
and that a bundle offtraw, or ofier, reprefenting his
“ perfon, was publicly burnt at Padua that by fo rigorous an example, and by the fear of incurring a
;
“ like penalty, they might fupprefs the reading ofthree books which he had compofed on this fubjedtr
“ the firft of which is the noted Heptameron , or MagicalElementsofPeterdeAbano , Pbilofopber , nowextant,.
“ and printed at the end of Ag’ippa's works; the fecond, that which Trithemius calls Elucidarium
“ Necromanticum Petride Abano and a third, called, bythe fame author. Liber experimentorum mirabilium
;
“ de Annulisfecundem , 28 Manfiom Lunee Now it is to be noted, that Naude lays no ftrefs upon thefe
feeming ftrong proofs he refutes them by immediately after affirming, that Peter of Apona was a man
;
of prodigious penetration and learning, living in an age ofdarknefs which caufed every thing out of
the vulgar track to be fufpedled as diabolical, efpecially as he was very much given to ftudy, and
acquainted with the harmony of the celeftial bodies and the proportions of nature, and addicted to
curious and divinatory fcience. “ He was one (fays he) who appeared as a prodigy of learning amidft
“ the ignorance ofthat age, andwho, befides his (kill in languages and phyfic, had carried his enquiries
“ fo far into the occult fciences of abftrufe and hidden nature, that, after having given moil ample
“ proofs, by his writings concerning phyfiognomy, geomancy, and chiromancy, what he was able to
“ perform in each ofthefe, he quitted them all together with his youthful cupofity to addidl himfelf
“ wholly to the ftudy ofphilofophy, phyfic, and aftrology ; which ftudies proved fo advantageous to
“ him, that, not to fpeak of the two firft, which introduced him to all the popes and fovereign pontiffs
“ of his time, and acquired him the reputation which at prefent he enjoys among learned men, it
44 is certain that he was a great mafter in the latter, which appears, not only by the aftronomicalfigures
“ which he caufed to be painted in the great hall ofthe palace at Padua, and the tranflations he made
“ of the books of themoft learned Rabbi Abraham Aben Ezra, addedto thofe which he himfelfcompofed
41 on criticaldays, and the improvement of aftronomy, but by the teftimony of the renowned mathema-
41 tician Regio Montanus, who made a fine panegyric on him, in quality ofan aftrologer, in the oration
44 whichhe delivered publicly at Padua when he explainedthere the book ofAfraganus Now, many
refpe&able authors are ofopinion that it was not on the fcore of magic that the Inquifition fentencedst,
W
PETRUS DE ABANO.
and perfecuted otT that account by the Inquifition : and it is probable that,
if he had lived to the end of his trial, he would have fuffer^d in perfon what
he was fentenced to buffer in effigy after his death. His apologifts obferve,
that his body, being privately taken out of his grave by his friends, efcaped
the vigilance ofthe Inquifitors, who would have condemned it to be burnt.
He was removed from place to place, and at laft depofited in St. Augujliri
Church without Epitaph, or any other mark of honour. His accufers
,
afcribed inconfiflent opinions to him;, they charged him with being a magician,
and yet with denying the exigence offpirits. He had fuch an antipathy to
milk, that the very feeing any one take it made him vomit. He died in the
year 1316* in the fixty-fixth year of his age- One of his principal books
was the Conciliator, already mentioned.
him todeath, but becaufe he endeavoured to account for the wonderfuleffedls in nature by the influence
of the celeflial bodies , not attributingthem to angels ordaemons ; fo that herefy, inftead ofmagic, feems to
have been the ground ofhis falling under the tyranny ofthe fage fathers ofthe Roman Cotholic faith,•
asbeing one who oppofedthe dodlrine of fpiritual beings.
* Ifthis be true as we read in Tomaflni, in Elog. Vilor. llluflr.p. 22, Naude mu ft be miftakcn where
he fays, that “ Peter Aponus being accufed at the age of80 years, died A. D. 1305.” Freherus affirms
the fame upon the authority ofBernardin Scardeon. Geflier is miftaken in making Peter Aponus flourifli
in the year 1320. Konig has copied this error. But Father Rapin is much more grofsly miftaken than
anyofthem when he places him in the fifteenth century, faying,. “ Peter ofApona,aphyfician ofPadua
« who flouri(bed under Clement VII, debauched his imagination fo far by reading the Arabian philofo-
** phers, and by too much ftudying the aftrology ofAlfraganus, that he was put into the Inquifitiom
upon the fufpicion ofmagic, &c.” See Rapin Reflex.Jur la Pbilofophice, n. 28, p. 360. Fofflus has
followed Gefntr, and makes an obfervation worthy to be conlidered. He fays, that PeterofApona fent
his book, De Medicina Qmmmoda, to pope J'>hn XXII, who was eledted in the year 1316, and held the
PontificalChair feventeen years. By this we know the age of this phyfician. But if the year 1316
was that ofhis death, the conclufion is unjuft ; neither does itclear.Fofflus ofan error.
APULEIUS,, , , ;
BIOGRAPHIA ANTIQUA*
APULEIUS,
THE PLATONIC PHILOSOPHER.
J UCIUS APULEIUS, a Platonic philofopher, publicly known by the fa-
mous work of the Golden Afs lived in the fecond century under the Anto-
nines. He was a native of Madaura a Roman colony in Africa’, his family
,
was confiderable he had been well educated, and pofTeffed a graceful exterior
; j
he had wit and learning but was fufpedted of magic. He ftudied firft at
;
Carthage then at Athens, and afterwards at Rome where he acquired the
,
Latin tongue without any abidance. An infatiable curiofity to know every
thing induced him to make feveral voyages, and enter himfelf into feveral
religious fraternities. He would fee the bottom of their myfteries. He fpent
almod: all his eftate in travelling infomuch, that being returned to Rome,
;
and having a defire to dedicate himfelf to the fervice of Ofiris he lacked
money to defray the expence of the ceremonies ofhis reception, he was obliged
to make money of his clothes to complete the neceffary film : after this, he
gained his living by pleading and, as he was eloquent and fubtle, he did not
;
want caufes, fome of which were very confiderable. Put he improved his
fortunes much more by a lucky marriage than by pleading. A widow, whofe
name was Pudentilla, neither young nor fair, but who had a good eftate,
thought him worth her notice. He was not coy, nor was he folicitous to keep
his fine perfon, his wit, his neatnefs, and his eloquence, for fome young girl
he married this rich widow chearfully (and with the moil becoming philofophy
•overcame all turbulent pafiions, which might draw him into the fnares of
beauty,) at a country houfe near Oea, a maritime town of Africa. This mar-
riage drew upon him a troublefome law-fuit. The relations of this lady’s
two fons urged that he had mtide ufe of art magic to poffefs himfelf of hen,
APULEIUS.
1 59
pfon and money; they accufed him of being woffe than a magician, viz.
a wizard, before Claudius Maximus Proconful of Africa. He defended himfelf
wdth great vigour*.. His apology, which he delivered before the judges,
fumifhes
Befides the accufarion ofmagic, they reproached him with his beauty, his fine hair, his teeth, and
his looking-glafs. To the two firfl particulars he anfwered he was forry their accusation was fal
“ How do I with,” replied he, “ that thefe heavy accufations ofbeauty, fine hair, See. werejuft! I
flioxtld, without difficulty, reply, as Paris in Homer does to Hedtor,.
nortbou defpife the charms
With which a lovergolden V enus arms.
Soft movingfpeecb, andpleafing outwardJbe-w,
No vjijh cangain them, but the Gods bejlow.
Pope.
“ Thus wouldT replyto the charge ofbeauty. Befides that, even phiiofophers are allowed to be of
w “ a Ze li n be o r — al bu a t f , pe a d s t ; I o t b h f a e t r P v y e t d h , ag I or a a m s , f t a h r e f f r ir o f m t o p f re ph t i e i n o d f i o n p g he t r o s, thi w s as ap t o h l e og h y an ; df f o i m ne e s f , t b m ef a i n des of th h a i t s t n i a m t e ure ; a h n a d s
“ beftowed but a very moderate degree ofbeauty on me, my continual application to ftiidy wears off
“ every bodily grace, and impairs my conftitution; My hair, which I am falfely accufed of curling
** and dreffing by way ofornament, is, asyoufee, far from beingbeautiful and delicate : on thecontrary,
“ it is perplexed and entangled like a bundle offlocks or tow, and fo knotty through long negledt of
“ combing, and even ofdifentangling, as never to be reduced to order.” As to the third particular,
He did not deny hishaving fent a very exquifite powder for the teeth to a friend, together with fome
verfes, containingan exadf defeription ofthe effedfs ofthe powder. He alledged that all but efpccially
,
thofe wffio fpake in public, ought to be particularly careful to keep their mouths clean. This was a
fine field for defence, and for turning his adverfary into ridicule ; though, in all probability, he had
givenoccafion enoughforcenfure by too great an affedlation ofdiftinguifhing himfelffrom other learned
men. Obferve with how much eafe fome caufes are defended, although the defendant be a little in the
wrong. “ I obferved that fome could fcarce forbear laughing when our orator angrily accufed me of
“ keeping my mouth clean, andpronounced theword tooth-powderwith as much indignation as anyone
M
ever pronounced the word poifon. But, furely, it is not beneath a philofopher to ftudy cleanlinefs,
“ and to.let no part ofthebody be foul, or ofan ill favour, efpeeially the mouth, the ufe of which is-
“ the moft frequent and confpicuous, whether a man converfes with another,orfpeaks in public, orfays
“ his prayers in a temple. For fpeech is previous to every,adtion of a man, and, as an excellent poet
“
fays, proceeds from the Wall ofthe Teeth.”
We may make the fame obfervation upon the laft head of his accufation. It is no crime in a dodfor
ofwhat faculty foever, to have a looking-glafs ; but if he confults it too often in dreffing himfelf, he is
juftly liable to cenfure. Morality in ^puleius's time was much-ftridler than at prefent as to external
behaviour, for he durfl; not avow his making ufe ofhis looking-glafs. He maintains that he might do
it,.
il6o BIOGRAPHIA ANTIQUA*'
furnifhes us with examples of the moil fhameful artifices that the villainy of
an impudent calumniator is capable of putting in practice*. Apuleius was
extremely laborious, and compofed feveral books, fome in verfe and others in
profe, ofwhich but a fmallpart has refilled the injuries of time. He delighted
in making public fpeeches, in which he gained the applaufe of all his hearers.
When they heard him at Oea, the audience cried out with one voice, that he
if, and proves it by feveral pliilofophical reafons, which, to fay thetruth, are much moreingeniousthan
judicioufly applied
;
but he denies that he ever confulted his looking-glafs
;
for he fays, alluding tothis
ludicrous accufation, “ Next follows the long and bitter harangue about the—looking-glafs
;
in which,
“ fo heinous is the — crime, that Pudetis almoft burll himfelf with bawling out ‘ A philofopher to have
“ a looking-glafs!’ Suppofe I fliould confefs that I have,that you may notbelievethere is really fome-
“ “ t m h a i k n e g a in pr y a o c u t r ice ob o j f ec d t r i e o f n f , in i g f m I y f f l e i l o f ul a d t d i e t. ny I it n ; ma it n d y oe t s hi n n o g t s f I o w ll ra o n w t f t r h o e m po h f e l n ef c f e ion tha b t ut I e m n u j f o f y n t e h c e ef u T f a e ril o y f
“ them. Now, ifneither to have a thing be a proof that it is made ufe of, nor the want of it of the
“ contrary, and as I am not blamed for pofTerting, but for making ufe of, a looking-glafs, it is incum-
“ bent upon him to prove farther at what time, andin what place, and in the prefenceofwhom, I made
“ ufe ofit ; fince you determine it to be a greater crime in a philofopher to fee a looking-glafs, than foT
4‘ theprofane to behold the attire ofCeres?’
* I fliall inftance one to fliew that in all ages the fpirit ofcalumny has put men upon forging proofs
by falfe extracts from what a perfon has faidor written. To convift Apuleius of pradlifmg magic, his
accufers alledgc a letter which his wife had wrote during the time he paid hisdevoirstoher, and affirmed
that fhe had confeffed, inthis letter that Apuleius was a wixard,and hadadluallybewitched her. Itwas
,
no hard matter to make the court believe that (he had written fo, for they only read a few words of her
letter, detached from what preceded or followed, and no one prefled them to read the whole. At laft,
Apuleius covered them with confufion byreciting the whole paflage from his wife’s letter. It appeared
that far from complaining ofApuleius, flie juftified him, and artfully ridiculed his accufers. Thefe
are his words you will find that precifely the fame terms may either condemn or juflify Apuleius,
:
according as they are taken with or without what precedes them. “ Being inclined to marry, for the
41 reafonswhich I have mentioned, you yourfelfperfuaded me to make choice ofthis man, being fond of
" him, and being defirous, by my means,to make him one ofthe family. But now, at the inftigation of
41 wicked men, Apuleiusmullbe informedagainft asamagician (or wizard), and I,forfooth, am enchanted
“ by him. I certainly love him : come to me before my reafon fails me.” He aggravates this kind
of fraud as it deferves ; his words deferve to be engraved in letters of gold, to deter (if poflible) all
calumniators from pradfifing the like cheats. He fays, “ There are many things which, produced
r‘ alone, may feem liable to calumny. Any difeourfe may furnifh matter ofaccufation, if what is con-
“ nefled with foregoing words be robbed ofitsintrodu&ion ; if fome things be fupprefled at pleafure,
,l and if what is fpoken by way ofreproach to others, for inventing a calumny, be pronounced bythe
*• reader as an aflertion of the truth ofit.”
oughtAPULEIUS. 161
ought to be honoured with the freedom of the city. Thofe of Carthage heard
him favourably, and eredted a ftatue in honour of him. Several other cities
did him the fame honour. It is faid that his wife held the candle to him
v
whilft he ftudied ; but this is not to be taken literally ; it is rather a figure
of Gallic eloquence in Sidonis Apollinaris, Legentibus meditantibufque
&
candelas candelabra tenuerunt Several critics have published notes on
.
Apuleius witnefs Pbillipus Beraldus who publifhed very large notes on the
: ,
Golden Afs, at Venice
,
in folio, ann. 1504, which were reprinted in 8vo, at
Paris, and at feveral other places. Godefcalk Stewichius, Peter Colvius, John
Wiewer &c. have written on all the works ofApuleius. Precius publifhed
,
the Golden Afs and the Apology, feparately, with a great many obfervations.
y
The annotations of Cafaubon and thofe of Scipio Gentilis on the Apology,
y y
are very fcarce, and much valued: the firfl appeared in the year 1594, and
* the latter in 1607. The Golden Afs may be confidered (as Bayle fays) as a
continued fatire on the diforders which the pfeudo-magicians, priefls, pandars,
and thieves filled the world with at that time. This obfervation occurs in
Fleuri’s annotations. A perfon who would take the pains, and had the
requifite qualifications, might draw up a very curious and inftrudtive com-
mentary on this romance, and might inform the world of feveral things which
the preceeding commentaries have never touched upon. There are fome very
obfcene paffages in this book of Apuleius. It is generally believed that this
author has inferted fome curious epifodes in it of his own invention and
;
amongft others, that ofPfyche. Horum certe nojler itce imitator fuit ut efuo
y
penu enumerabilia protulerit y atque inter ccetera venujlijjimum illud Pfyches y
’EwsktoiW. This epifode furnifhed Moliere with matter for an excellent
Dramatic Piece, and M. de la Fontaine for a fine Romance.
Y ARISTOTLE,$
I6-2 BIOGRAPHIA ANTIQO'Ao.
A R T O T L
I S E,.
THE PE1UPATETJC.
f^RISTOTLE, commonly called thePrince of Philofophers, or thePhilofo-
pher, byway ofexcellence, was the founderofa fedt which furpafted, andat
length even fwallowed up all the reft. Not but that it has had reverfe offortune
in its turn ; efpecially in the feventeenth century, in which it has been violently
fhaken, though the Catholic divines on the one fide, and the Proteftant on
the other, have run (as to the quenching of fire), to its relief, and fortified
New
themfelves fo ftrongly, by the fecular arm, againft the Philofophy, that
it is not like to lofe its dominion. Mr.. Moreri met with fo many good
materials in a work of father Rapin, that he has given a very large article of
Ariftotle, enough to difpenfe with any aftiftance. Accordingly, I defagn not
to enlarge upon it as far as the fubjedt might allow, but fhall content myfelf
with obferving fome of the errors which I have collected concerning this
philofopner. It is not certain that Ariftotle pradcifed pharmacy in Athens
while he was a difciple of Plato nor is it more certain that he did not. Very
,
little credit ought to be given to a current tradition that he learnt feveral
things of a Jew, and much iefs to a ftory of his pretended converfion to.
judaifm They who pretend that he was born a Jew? are much more grofsly
,
miftaken the wrong pointing of a certain paftage occafioned this miftake.
:
They are deceived who fay that he was a difciple of Socrates for three years,
for Socrates died 15 years before Ariftotle was born. Ariftotle’ behaviour
tov/ards his mafter Plato is varioufly related : fome will have it that, through
prodigious vanity and ingratitude, he fet up altar againft altar : that is, he
eredled a fchool in Athens during Plato’s life, and in oppofition to him : others
We
fay that he did not fet up for a profeftor till after his mailer’s death. are
• told.2
ARISTOTlE. l®3
told Tome tilings concerning his amours which are not altogether to his
advantage. It was pretended that his conjugal affedtion was idolatrous, and
that, ifhe had not retired from Athens the procefs for irreligion, which the
,
priefts had commenced againft him, would have been attended with the fame
confequences as that againft Socrates Though he deferved very great praife,
.
yet it is certain that moft of the errors concerning him are to be found in the
extravagant commendations which have been heaped upon him : as, for exam-
ple, is it not a downright falsehood to fay, that ifArijiotle/poke in his natural
philofophy like a man he fpoke in his moralphilofophy like a 'God; and that it is
,
a quejlion in his moral philofophy whether he partakes snore ofthe lawyer than of
theprief more ofthepriefi than of the prophet more of the prophet than of
; ;
the God Cardinal Pallavicini fcrupled not in fome meafure to affirm that,
if it had not been for Arijiotle the church would have wanted fome of its
,
articles of faith. The Chriftians are not the only people who have author-
ized his philofophy ; the Mahometans are little lefs prejudiced in its favour $
and we are told, that to this day, notwitnftanding the ignorance which reigns
among them, they have fchools for this fedt. It will be an everlafting fubjedt
of wonder, to perfons who know what philofophy is, to find that Arijiotle1 s
authority was fo much refpedled in the fchools, for feveral ages, that when a
difputant quoted a paflage from this philofopher, he who maintained the
thefs durft nor fay tranfeat , but muft either deny the paflage, or explain it in
his own way. It is in this manner we treat the Holy Scriptures in the
divinity fchools. The parliaments which have profcribed all other philofophy
but that of Arijiotle , are more excufable than the dodtors i for whether the
members of parliament were really perfuaded that this philofophy was the
beft of any, or was not, the public good might induce them to prohibit new
opinions, left the academical divifions fhould extend their malignant influence
to the difturbance of the tranquillity of the ftate. What is moft aftonifhing
to wife men is, that the profeflfors fhould be fo ftrongly prejudiced in favour
of Arifotle' s philofophy. Had this prepofleffion been confined to his poetry
and rhetoric, it had been lefs wonderful : but they were fond of the weakeft
Y
2 of,
164 BIOGRAPHIA ANTIQU At
of his works j I mean his Logic, and Natural Philofophy *. This jufliee,,
however, muft be done to the blinded of his followers, that they have deferted
him where he clafhes with Chriftianity and this he did in points of the
:
greateft confequence, fince he maintained the eternity of the world, and did
not believe that providence extended itfelf to fublunary beings. As to the
immortality of the foul, it is not certainly known whether he acknowledged-
it or not -fu In the year 1647, the famous capuchin. Valerian Magni pub-
lished a work concerning the Atheifm ofArijiotle About one hundred and-
.
thirty years before, Marc Anthony Venerius published a fyftem of philofophy,-,
in which he difcovered feveral inconfiftencies between Ariftotle's dodtrine, and
the truths of religion. Oampanella maintained the fame in his book de Re«
dudlione adRcligionem, which was approved at Rome in the year 1630. It was-
not long fince maintained in Holland, in the prefaces to fome books, that the.
dodtrine of this philofopher differed but little from Spinoziftn. In the mean
time, iffome Peripatetics may be believed, he was not ignorant ofthe myftery
of the Trinity. Pie made a very good end, and enjoys eternal happinefs,.
Pie compofed a great number of books; a great part of which is come down,
to us. It is true fome critics raife a thoufand fcruples about them. He was.
extremely honoured in his own city, and there were not wanting heretics who
worshipped his image with that of Chrijl. There is extant,fome book which
mentions, that, before the Reformation, there were- churches in Germany in
* To he convinced ofthe weaknefs of thefe works, we need only read GaJJendus in his Exercitationes
.
Paradoxicce adverfos Ari/loteleos. He fays enough there againft Arijiotle % philofophy in general, to con-
vince every unprejudiced reader that it is very defective ; but he particularly ruins this p’nilofopherV
Logic. He was preparing, likevvife, a cuticifm on his Natural Philofophy, his Metaphyfics, and Ethics,
in the fame way ; when, being alarmedat the formidable indignation oftheperipatetic party againft him,
he chofe rather to drop his work, than expofe himfelf to their vexatious perfecutions. In Arijiotle's
Logic and Natural Philofophy, there are many things which difcover the elevation and profundity
...
of his genius.
Pcm/onatiusand Nipbushadagreatquarrel onthis fubjeft. The firft maintained,thatthe immortality
•f
of the foul was inconfiftent with Arijiotle's principles: the latter undertook to defend the contrary. See
the difcourfe of la Moths le Vaytr on the Immortality of the Soul, and Bodi-a, in page 15 of Pref.-
to Damonomania%
which%
ARISTOTLE.
which Arijlotle' Ethics were read every Sunday morning to the people inRead
'
of the Gofpel. There are but few inRanges ,of zeal for religion which have
not been (hewn for the Peripatetic philofophy, Paul de Foix famous for his
,
embaffies and his learning; would not fee Francis Patricias at Ferrara beeaufe
,
he was informed that that learned man taught a philofophy different from the
Peripatetic This was treating the enemies ofArijlotle as zealots treat heretics.
After all, it is no wonder that the Peripatetic philofophy, as it has been taught
for feveral centuries, found fo many protestors ; or that the interefts of it
are believed to be infeparable from thofe of theology : for it aecuRoms the
mind to acquiefce without evidence. This union of intereRs may be eReemed
as a pledge to the Peripatetics of the immortality of their fedt, and an argument
—
to abate the hopes of the new philofophers. Confidering* withal, that there
are fome doctrines of AriRotle which the moderns have rejected, and which
,
muR, fooner or later, be adopted again* The ProteRant divines have very
.
much altered their condudt, ifit is true, as we are told, that the RrR reformers
clamoured fo loud againR the Peripatetic philofophy. The kind of death,
,
which in fome refpedts does much honour to the memory of Arijlotle, is, that
which fome have reported, viz. that his vexation at not being able to difeover
the caufe of thejlux and reflux of the FuAppus occafioned the diRemper of
which he died. Some fay, that being retired into the ifland of' Fubcea to
y
avoid a procefs againR him for irreligion, he poifoned himfelf but why
fhould he quit Athens to free himfelffrom perfecution this way ? Hesychius
affirms, not only that fentence of death was pronounced againR him for an
hymn which he made in honour of his father-in-law, but alfo that he
fwallowed aconite in execution of this fentence. If this were true, it would
have been mentioned by more authors.
The number ofancient and modem writers who have exercifed their pens,
on Arijlotle , either in commenting on, or tranflating, him, is endlefs. A cata-
logue of them is to be met with in fome of the editions of his works, but
not a complete one. See a treatife of father Labbe, entitled. Ariflotelis
Platonis Grcecorum Interpretum typis haBenus editorum brevis confpeBus
, ;
A
fhort view ofthe Greek interpreters ofAriRotle and Plato hitherto publijhedy
printed
v-
66 B10GRAPHIA ANTIQUA,
1
printed at Paris in the year 1657 in 4to. Mr. Teiffier names four authors
who have compofed the life of Arijlotle y - Ammonias y Guarini of Verona , fohn
fames Beurerus and Leonard Aretin. He forgot ferome Gemufceus phyfician
, ,
and profe/Tor of philofophy at Bazil author of a book, De Vita AriJiotelis
— , y
et ejus Operum Cenfurav The Life ofArijlotle and a Critique on bis Works.
,
Peter Bayle.
ARTEMIDORUS of EPHESUS.
/
THE
SOMNABULIST, or DREAMER.
^^RTEMIDORUS
(who wrote fo largely upon Dreams) was a native of
Ephefus. He lived under Antonins Pius as he informs us himfelf, where
,
he fays, he knew an Athlete, who having dreamt that he had loft his fight,
obtained the prize in the games which that Emperor ordered to be celebrated.
No author has ever taken more pains upon fo ufeful a fubjedt than Artemi
dorus has done. He bought up all that had been written upon the fubjedt of
dreams, which amounted to feveral volumes, but he fpent many years in
travelling to colledt them, as well as the different opinions of all the learned
who were then living. He kept a continual correfpondence with thofe in the
towns and afiemblies of Greece, in Italy, and in the mo ft populous iftands;
and he colledted^ every where all the dreams he could hear of, and the events
they had. He defpifed the cenfure of thofe grave and fupercilious perfons,
who treat all pretenders to predidtiens as fharpers, or impoftors, and without
regarding the cenfures of thefe Catos he frequented thofe diviners many years.
,
In a w ©rd. he devoted all his time and thoughts to the fcience ofdreams. He
t
thoughtartemidorus.
thought that his great labour in making fo many collections, &c. had enabled
him to warrant his interpretations by reafon and experience, but unfortunately
he ever fixed upon the moft trifling and frivolous fubjedts, fuch as almofl: every
one is dreaming of: there is no dream which Artemidorus has explained, but
will bear a quite different interpretation, with the fame probability, and with
at lead: as natural refemblances, as thofe on which that interpreter proceeds,
I fay nothing'of the injury done to intelligences to whofe direction we rnufh
,
neceflarily impute our dreams if we expeCt to find in them any prefage of fu-
turity Artemidorus took great pains to inftruCt his fon in the fame fcience,
as appears by the two books which he dedicated to him. So eager a purfuit.
after thefe ftudies is the lefs to be wondered at, when we confider that he be-
lieved himfelf under the infpiration of Apollo. He dedicated his three firfl
* We find in Artemidorus fome of the moft trifling incidents indreams noted by him to prefage very
extraordinary things; fuch,as ifanyone dreams ofhis nofe, orhisteeth, orfuch liketriflingfubjetfts,fuch
—
particular events they muft denote. Now, as we cannot attribute a true and fignificant dream to any
other caufe than the celeftial intelligences , or an evil damon, or etfe to the foul itfslf (which poffefles an
inherent prophetic virtue, as we have fully treatedofin our SecondBook ofMagic,wherevse havefpoken of
prophetic dreams)- I fay. from which of thefe caufes a dream proceeds, we muft afcribe but a very de-
ficient portion of knowledge to either ofthem, if we do not allow them capable of giving better and
plainer information refpedting any calamity or change of fortune or circumftances, than by dreaming of
—
one’s nofe itching, or a tooth*falling out, and a hundred other toys like thefe. I fhy, fuch modes of
dictating tous a fore-knowledge of events to happen, cannot but be unworthy of their wifdom, fub-
tilty, or power, and ifthey cannot inftruCl us by better figns, how great is their ignorance, and if they
will not, how great is their malice ? therefore, all fuch trifling dreams are to be altogether rejected as
vain and infignificant, for,we muft remember that “a dream comes throughthemultitude of hufnefsf and
often otherwife ; but fuch dreams as we are to notice, and draw predictions of future accidents and
events, are thofe where the dream is altogether confident, not depending upon any prior difcourfe,
accidents, or other like circumftances ; likewife, that the perfon who would with to dream true dreams,
fhould fo difpofe himfelfas to become a fit recipient of the heavenly powers, but this is only to be done
by a temperate and frugal diet, a mind bent on fublime contemplations, areligious defire of being in-
formed ofany misfortune, accident, or event, which might introduce mifery, poverty, or diflraftion of
mind fo as when we know it, to deprecate the fame by prayer to the divine wifdom, thathewould be
;
pleafed todivert the evil impending, or to enable us to meet the fame with fortitude, and endure
it with patience till the will of the Deity is accomplished. Thefe are the things which we ought to
be defirous to receiveinformation ofbydream ,vifion, or the like,andofwhich many areoften truly fore-
warned, and thereby foretell things to come, alfo prefage of the death of certain friends y all which I
know by experience to be true and probable,
books68 BIOGRAPHIA ANTIQUA.
1
—
books to one CaJJius Maximus, and the other two to his fon. They were
printed in Greek at Venice in the year 1518. In the year 1603 Rigaultius
publifhed them at Paris in Greek and Latin with notes. The Latin tranfla-
,
tion he made ufe of was that publithed by John Cornarius at Bazil, in the
year 1539. Artemidorus wrote a treatife of augury, and another upon chiro-
mancy but we have no remains of them. Tertullian has not taken notice of
;
him in that paflage, where he quotes feveral onirocritic authors but Lucian
;
does not forget him, though he names but two writers of this clafs.
BABYLONIANS.
^JNDER this article ofBabylonians we fhall juft give the reader a general
~ - {ketch of the antiquity of occult learning among the Chaldeans of Ba-
bylon, fo famous for their fpeculations in aftrology. Diodorus Siculus informs
us, that the inhabitants of Babylon aflert, that their city was very ancient ;
for they counted four hundred and feventy-three thoufand years, from the firft
obfervations of their aftrologers to the coming of Alexander. Others fay,
that the Babylonians boafted of having preferved in their archives the obferva-
tions which their aftrologers had made on nativities for the fpace of four
hundred and feventy thoufand years from hence we ought to corred a paf-
;
fage of Pliny, which fome authors make ufe of improperly, either to confute
the antiquity of Babylon, or for other purpofes. Ariftotle knew without
doubt that the Babylonians boafted of having a feries of aftronomical obfer-
vations comprehending a prodigious number of centuries. He was defirous
to inform himfelf of the truth of this by means of Calijlhenes, who was in
Alexander’s retinue, but found a great miftake in the account for it is pre-
tended, that Callijlhenes aflured him that the aftronomical obfervations he had
feenBABYLONIANS. 169
feen in Babylon comprehended no more than 1903 years. Simplicius reports
,
this, and borrows it from Porphyry. If Calijihenes has computed right, it
muft be agreed, that after the deluge men made very great hafte to become
aftrologers for according to the Hebrew Bible there is but two thoufand
;
years *' to be found from the flood to the death of Alexander. There is
reafon to queftion what Simplicius reports, and it is remarkable that all the
ancient authors, who have afcribed the building of Babylon to Semiramis have
,
no authority than that of Ctejias, whofe hiftories abounded in fables. And,
therefore, we fee that Berojius blames the Greek writers for affirming, that
Semiramis-built Babylon, and adorned it with the moft beautiful ftrudtures.
The fupplement to Moreri quotes Quintus Curtius, in relation to the immo-
defly of the Babylonian women who proftituted their bodies to ftrangers
-f-,
for money, under the idea of performing their devotions required by Venus.
Gbferve, that thefe fums were afterwards applied to religious ufes.
* Epigenustells us, that amongft the Babylonians there were celeftial obfervations for four hundred
and feventy thoufand years, infcribed on pillars or tables of bricks. Berojius and C'itodemus, who
make the leaft of it, fay four hundred and ninety years.
-j- This lafcivious ceremony was very ancient. Jeremiah's letter inferted in the book of Baruch
touches fomething on it, but—in an obfcure manner, and wants a commentary taken o
—
ut of Hensiotus.
Jeremiah’s text runs thus : “The women alfo with cords about them fat in the ways but if any of
“ them, drawn by feme that pafieth by^ lie with him, fhe reproacheth her fellow, that {he was not
“ thought as worthy as herfelf, nor her cord broken.”—Herodotus informs us, that there was alaw in
Babylon which obliged all the women of the country to feat themfelves near the temple of Venus and
,
there to wait anopportunity ofcopulating with a ftranger,
z THEI^O BIOGRAPHIA ANTIQUA*
THE LIFE
OF
HENRY CORNELIUS AGRIPPA, Knight,
DOCTOR OF BOTH LAWS, COUNSELLOR TO CHARLES V. EMPEROR OF GERMANY, AND
JUDGE OF THE PREROGATIVE COURT.
J-JENRY CORNELIUS AGRIPPA, a very learned man and a magician*,
flourished in the Sixteenth century. He was born at Cologne on the 14th
of September, i486. He defcended from a noble and ancient family of Net-
teSheim in Belgia defiring to walk in the Reps of his anceftors, who for
many generations had been employed by the princes of the houfe of Anjlria
y
he entered early into the fervice of the Emperor Maximilian. He had at
firft the employ of Secretary but as he was equally qualified for the fword
;
as the pen he afterwards turned foldier, and ferved the Emperor feven
,
years in his Italian army. He Signalized himfelf on feveral occafions, and as
a reward of his brave adtions he was created knight in the field. He wifhed
to add the academical honours to the military, he therefore commenced dodtor
of laws and phyfic. He was a man pofiefled ofa very wonderful genius, and
from his youth applied his mind to learning, and by his great natural talents
he obtained great knowledge in almoft all arts and fciences. He was a diligent
fearcher into the myfieries of nature, and was early in fearch of the philofo-
pher’s fione and it appears that he had been recommended to fome princes
;
* As he himfelf aflcrts in his preface to his three books of Occult Philofophy and Magic, where he
fays, “ who am indeed a magician,” applying the word magic to fublime and good fciences, not to pro-
phane and devilifh arts. PaulJovius, Thevet, and Martin delRio, accufe him not of magic
,
(becau/e
we cannot apply that to neaomantic arts) but the black art but we fhall fliew in fome of the following
;
notes, their grounds on which this accufation of Agrippa is founded, and examine how far their infor-
mation will juftify their calumny againlt this author.
as
NHENRY CORNELIUS AGRIPPA.
171
ss matter of the art ofalchymy*, and very fit for the grand projedtion. He
had a very extenfive knowledge of things in general, as likewife in the learned
languages. He was pupil to Trithemius, who wrote upon the nature, mini-
ftry, and offices of intelligences and fpirits- He was of an unfettled temper,
and often changed his lituation, and was fo unfortunate as to draw upon
We
himfelfthe indignation of the Popifh clergy by his writings. find by his
letters that he had been in Franc? before the year 1507, that he travelled into
Spain in the year ryo8, and was at Dole in the year 1509. He read public
ledtures there, which engaged him in a contell with the Cordelier Catilinet.
The monks in thofe times fufpedted. whatever they did not underftand, of
herefy and error how then could they fuffer Agrippa to explain the myfteri-
;
ous works of Reuchlinus de Verbo Mirijico with impunity ? It was the fub-
jedt of the ledtures which he read at Dole in 1509 with great reputation.
To ingratiate himfelf the better with Margaret of Aufria governefs of the
t
Aufrian Netherlands he compofed at that time a treatife on the excellency of
,
women but the perfecution he ffiffered from the monks prevented him
;
from publifhing it * he gave up the caufe, and came into England , where he
wrote on St. Paul's Epiftles, although he had another very private affair upon
his hands. Being returned to Cologne he read public ledtures there on the
,
queftions of the divinity, which are called Quodlibetales after which he went
;
to the Emperor Maximilian s.army in Italy and continued there till Cardinal
,
de Sainte Croix fent for him to Pi fa. Agrippa would have difplayed his
abilities there in quality of theologill of the council, if that affembly had
continued. This would not have been the way to pleafe the Court of Rome
X ,
or to deferve the obliging letter he received from Leo and from whence
,
we may conclude, that he altered his opinion. From that time he taught
divinity publicly at Pavia and at Turin. He likewife read ledtures on Mer-
,
curius Trifmegifus at Pavia in the year 1515. He had a wife who was
,
* We have no authority to fay, that ever he was in poffeffion of thegreatfecret of tranfmntation,
neither can we gather any fuel- information from his writings the only circumftance relative to this is
;
what himfelffays in occult phiiolophy, that he hadmadegold butno more than that out of which thefoul
,
was extrafted.
Z handfome
2. ,
172 BIOGRAPHXA ANTIQUA
handfome and accomplifhed, by whom he had one fon he loft her in 521 he
; 1 ;
married again an accomplifhed lady at Geneva in the year 1522, of whom he
gives a very good character by this wife hehad three children, two fons andone
;
daughter, who died. Itappears by thefecond book ofhis letters, that his friends
endeavoured in feveral places to procure him fomehonourable fettlement, either
at Grenoble, Geneva, Avignon, or Metz. He preferred the port which was of-
fered him in this laft city; and I find that in the year 1518 he was chofen by
the lords of Metz to be their advocate, fyndic, and orator. The perfecutions
which the monks raifed againft him, as well on account of his having re-
futed the common opinion concerning the three hufoands of St. Anne as be-
,
caufe he had protected a country-woman, who was accufed of withcraft, made
—
him leave the city of Metz. The ftory is as follows : A country-woman,
who was accufed of withcraft, was propofed (by the Dominican, Nicholas Sa-
vin/', Inquilitor of the Faith at Metz to be put to the torture, upon a mere
)
prejudice, grounded on her being the daughter ofa witch, who had been burnt.
Agrippa immediately took up the cudgels, and did what he could to prevent
fo irregular a proceeding, but could not prevent the woman from being put
to the quejlion however, he was the inftrument of proving her innocence.
\
Her accufers were condemned in a fine. The penalty was too mild, and far
from a retaliation. This country-woman was of Vapey a town fituated near
,
the gates ofMetz and belonging to the chapter of the cathedral. There ap-
,
peared in MeJJin, who was the principal accufer of this woman, fuch fordid
paffions, and fuch a total ignorance ofliterature and philofophy, that Agrippa
in his letter of June 2, 1519, treats the town of Metz as—“ The Jlep-
mother of learning and —virtue This fatyrical reflexion of Agrippa’s might
give rife to the proverb “ Metz, the covetous, and ftep-mother of arts and
—
fciences.” What induced him to treat of the monogamy of St. Anne was
his feeing, that fames Faber Stapulenfs his friend, was pulled to pieces by
,
the preachers of Metz, for having maintained that opinion. Agrippa retired
to Cologne his native city, in the year 1520, willingly forfaking a city,
,
which the feditious inquifitors had made an enemy to learning and true merit.
It is indeed the fate of all cities whereFuch perfons grow powerful of what-
* ever;
m
HENRY CORNELIUS AGRIPPA.
ioever religion they are of. He again left his own city in the year 1521, and
went to Geneva, but his fortunes did not much improve there, for he com-
plained that he was not rich enough to make a journey to Chamheri to folicit
the penfion, which he was led to expeCt from the Duke of Savoy. This ex-
pectation came to nothing, upon which Agrippa went from Geneva to Fri-
bourg in Switzerlandin the year 1523, to pradtife phyfic there as he had done
at Geneva. The year following he went to Lyons, and obtained a penfion
from Francis I. He was in the fervice of that prince’s mother in quality of
herphylician, but made no great improvement ofhis fortune there neither did
-,
he follow that princefs when fhe departed from Lyons in the month ofAugufl,
1525, to condudl her daughter to the frontiers of Spain. He danced attend-
ance at Lyons for fome time to employ the intereft of his friends in vain, to
obtain the payment of his penfion and before he received it he had the
;
vexation to be informed, that he was ftruck out of the lift. The caufe of
this difgrace was, that having received orders from his miftrefs to enquire by
the rules ofaftrology what turn the affairs ofFrance would take, he expreffed
his difapprobation too freely, that the princefs fhould employ him in fuch a
vaincuriofity, inftead ofmaking ufe of his abilities in more important affairs.
The lady took this leffon very ill, but fhe was highly incenfed when fhe
heard that Agrippa had, by the Rules of AJlrology, the Cabala or fome other
— ,
art, predicted new triumphs to the conftable of Bourbon*. Agrippa finding
himfelf
—
* See Agrippa’s words in his 29th Epift. lib. iv. p. 854, which are as follow : “I wrote to the
“ Fenecbal, defiring him to advife her not to mifapply my abilities any longer in fo unworthy an art
“ that I might for the future avoid thefe follies, lince I had it in my power to be of fervice to her by
“ much happier fludies.” But the greateftmisfortune was, that “ this unworthy art," and “ thefefollies,”
as he called them, predifted fuccefsto the oppofite party, asyoumayjudge by his own words.—“ I re-
“ member I told the Senefchal in a letter, that in cafting the conftable of Bourbon's nativity, I plainly
—
“ difcovered that he would this year likewife gain the victory over your armies,” They who are ac-
quainted with the hiftory of thefe times, muft fee plainly that Agrippa could not pay his court worfe to
Francis I. than bypromiling good fuccefs to the conftable. From that time Agrippa was looked upon
as a Bourlonifl : to filence this reproach he reprefented the fervice he had done to France by diffuading
,
4000 foot foldiers from followingtheEmperor’s party, and byengaging them inthe fervice of FrancisI.
He alledged the refufal of the great advantages which were promifed him when he left Fribourg, if he
would enter into the conftable’s fervice. It appears by the 4th and 6th Letter of Book V. that he held
a ftrid, ; ,
BIOGRAPHIA ANTIQUA»
J74
himfelf difcarded, murmured, flormed, threatened, and wrote but, how-
;
ever, he was obliged to look out for another fettlement. He call his eyes
on the Netherlands and having after long waiting obtained the neceffary
,
palfes, he arrived at Antwerp in the month of July, 1528. One of the
caufes of thefe delays was the rough proceeding of the Duke of Vendome
,
who inflead of figning the pafs for Agrippa tore it up, faying, that “ he
would not fign any palfport for a conjuror.” In the year 1529 the King of
'England fent Agrippa a kind invitation to come into his territories, and at the
fame time he was invited by the Emperor’s chancellor, by an Italian marquifs,
and by Margaret of Aujlria governefs of the Netherlands He accepted the
, .
offers of the latter, and was made hilloriographer to the Emperor, a poll
procured him by that princefs. He publilhed by way of prelude, The Hijlory
of the Government of Charles V. and foon after he was obliged to compofe
that princefs’s funeral oration, whofe death was in fome manner the life of
our Agrippa for Ihe had been llrangely prejudiced againll him the fame
:
ill office was done him with his Imperial Majelly. His treatife of the Vanity
ofthe Sciences, which he caufed to be printed in 1 530, terribly exafperated his
enemies. That which he publilhed foon after at Antwerp, viz. ofthe Occult
Philofophy, afforded them a Hill farther pretence to defame him. It was
fortunate for him that Cardinal Campegius, the Pope’s legate, and Cardinal Be
la Mark Bilhop of Liege, were his advocates ; but, however, their good of-
fices could not procure him his penfion as hilloriographer, nor prevent his
being imprifoned at Bruffels, in the year 1531, but he was foon releafed.
The following year he made a vilit to the Archbiffiop of Cologne, to whom
he had dedicated his Occult Philofophy and from whom he had received
a very obliging letter. The fear of his creditors, with whom he was much
embarraffed on account of his falary being flopped, made him flay longer
He
in the country of Cologne than he defired. flrenuoully oppofed the
inquifitors, who had put a flop to the printing of his Occult Philofophy ,
a Arid correfpondencewith that prince in 1527. He advifed and counfelled, yet refufed to go andjoin
him, and promifed him vidory. He allured him that the walls of Rome would fall down upon the firft
attack yet he omitted informing him of one point, and that was, that the conftabk would be killed
;
there.
whens
HENRY CORNELIUS AGRIPPA.
175
when he was publishing' a new edition of it corredled, and augmented
at Cologne.—See the xxvith, and the following Letters of the vnth Book.
In fpite of them the imprefiion was finished, which is that of the year 1533.
He continued at Bonn till the year 1535, and was then defirous of returning
to Lyons. He was imprifoned in France for fomething he had faid againd the
motherofFrancis I. but was releafed at the requeft ofcertain perfons, and went
Grenoble where ho died the fame year, 1535. Some fay, that he died in the
,
hofpital (but this is mere malice, for his enemies reported every thing thatenvy
could fugged: to depreciate his worth and character). He diedat the houfe ofthe
Receiver General of theprovince of Dauphiny, whofefon was fird president of
Grenoble. Mr. Allard at p. 4, ofthe BibliothequeofDauphine, fays, thatAgrippa
died at Grenoble in the houfe which belonged to the family-ofFerrand in Clerk's
,
Street , and was then in the pofj'efjion of the prefdent Vachon ; and that he was
buried in the convent ofthe Dominicans. He lived always in the Roman com-
munion, therefore it ought not to have been faid that he was a Lutheran
Burnet in his hidory ofthe Reformation alferts, that Agrippa wrote in favour
of the divorce of King Henry VIII. But if we look into Agrippa' s letters we
ihallfind that he was againdit, as well in t — hem aslikewife in his declamation on
the vanity of the fciences, where he fays “ I am informed there is a certain
" king, at this time o’day, who thinks it lawful for him to divorce a wife to
“ whom he has been married thefe twenty years, and to efpoufe an harlot.”
In refped of the charge of magic diabolical being preferred againd him by
Martin del Rio and others who confidently afierted, that Agrippa paid his way
at inns, &c. with pieces of horn, cading an illufion over the fenfes, where-
by thofe who received them took them for real money together with the dory
;
oftheboarderatLouvain , who,inAgrippa' abfence,raifed the devil in his dud y,
and thereby lod his life ; and Agrippa s coming home, and feeing the fpirits
dancing at the top of the houfe, his commanding one of them into the dead
body, and fending it to drop down at the market-place : all thefe dories, afierted
* -Agrippa, in his Apolog . cap . tq. fpeaks in lofty terms of Luther , and with fuch contempt of the sd-
-verfaries of that reformer, that it is plain from hence Sixtus Zkntnfis affirmed that Agrippa was a Lu-
theran.
by,
I76 BIOGRAPHIA ANT QUA-,
I
by Martin delRio are too ridiculous to be believed by men of fenfe or fcience,
they being no way probable even if he had dealt in the Black Art.-—As to
magic, in the fenfe it is underflood by us, there is no doubt of his being a
proficient in it, witnefs his three books of Occult Philofophy to fay nothing
;
here of the fourth, which we have good authority to fay was never wrote by
Agrippa,-as we (hall fhew prefently, where we fhall treat of the hiflory of his
—
Occult Philofophy. In a word, to fum up the character of Agrippa we mufl
do him the juflice to acknowledge, that notwithflanding his impetuous temper
which occafioned him many broils, yet from the letters which he wrote to fe~
veral of his mofl intimate friends, without any apparent defign of printing,
them, he was a man ufed to religious reflexions, and the practice of Chrifli-
anity that he was well verfed in many of the chiefefl and mold fecret opera-
;
tions of nature, viz. the fciences of natural and celeflial magic that he cer-
;
tainly performed flrange things (in the vulgar eye) by the application of ac~
tives to pajjives, as which of us cannot ? that he was an expert ajlrologer ,
phyfician, and mathematician by which, as well as by magic, he foretold many
,
uncommon things, and performed many admirable operations, John JVierus
9
who was his domeftic; has given feveral curious and interefling anecdotes,
which throw great light upon the myflerious character of Agrippa, and ferve
to free him from the fcandalous imputation of his being a profeffor of the
black art. Now, becaufe Agrippa continued whole weeks in his fludy,
and yet was acquainted with almoft every tranfadlion in feveral countries of
the v/orld, many filly people gave out, that a black dog which Agrippa kept
was an evil fpirit, by whofe means he had all this information, and which
communicated the ene?nies’ pojls , number, defigns, &c. to his mailer ; this is
Paul Jovius's account, by which you may fee on what fort of reports he
We
founded his opinions of this great man. wonder that Gabriel Naude had
not the precaution to objedt to the accufers of Agrippa, the great number of
hiftorical falfehoods of which they (his accufers) Hand convidled. Naude fup-
pofes that the monks and others of the ecclefiaflical order did not think of
crying down the Occult Philofophy till a long time after it was published ; he
affirms that they exclaimed againft that work, only in revenge for the injuries
Aey
.HENRY CORNELIUS AGRIPPA. 177
they believed they had received in that of the Vanity of the Sciences. ’Tis true,
this latter book gave great offence to many. The monks, the members
of the univerfities, the preachers, and the divines, faw themfelves drawn to
the life in it. Agrippa was of too warm a complexion. “ The leaf tafle cf
his book (of the Vanity of the Sciences) convinced me that he was an author of
a fiery genius, extenfve reading, and great memory ; but fometimes more copious
than choice in his fubjecl, and writing in a difiurbed, rather than in a compofed,
Jiyle.” He laflies vice, and commends virtue, every where, and in every perfon :
but there are fome with whom nothing but panegyric will go down. See
Erasmi
Epifl. lib. xxvii. p. 1083.
Let us now, in a few words, and for the conclufion of this article, defcribe
the hiftory of the Occult Philofophy. Agrippa compofed this work in his
younger days, and fhewed it to the Abbot Trithemius, whofe pupil he had
been. Trithemius was charmed with it, as appears by the letter which he
wrote to him on the 8th of April, 1510 but he advifes him to communicate
;
it only to thofe whom he could confide in. However, feveral manufcript
copies of it were difperfed almoft all over Europe. It is not necefiary to obferve
that moft of them were faulty, which never fails to happen in the like cafes.
They were preparing to print it from one of thefe bad copies which made
;
the author refolve to publifh it himfelf, with the additions and alterations
with which he had embellifhed it, after having fhewed it to the Abbot
Trithemius. Melchior Adam was miftaken in afferting that Agrippa, in his
more advanced years, having corredted and enlarged this work, fhewed it to
the Abbot Trithemius. He had refuted his Occult Philofophy in his Vanity of
the Sciences, and yet he published it to prevent others from printing a faulty
and mutilated edition. He obtained the approbation of the dodtors of
divinity, and fome other perfons, whom the Emperor’s council appointed to
examine
it.
“
This book has been lately examined and approved by'certain prelates of the
<e church, and doctors, thoroughly verfed both in f acred and profane literature
,
“ and by commiffariesparticularly deputedfor thatpurpofe by G^esarV council:
“
after which, it was admitted by the whole council, and licenfed by the authentic
A
a diploma,
!7S BIOGRAPH A ANTIQUA.
I
“ diploma ofhis Imperial Majefty , and the fiamp of the Cesarean Eagle in
“ red wax and was afterwards publicly printed andfold at Antwerp, and
;
** then at Paris, without any oppofition.”
After the death ofAgrippa a Fourth Book was added to it by another hand.
Jo. Wierus de Magis , cap. 5. p. 108, fays, “ To thefe (books of Magic)
“ may very jujtly be added , a work lately pub lifted, and afcribed to my late
“ honoured bojl andpreceptor Henry Cornelius Agrippa, who has been
,
“ dead more than forty years ; whence lconclude it is unjujlly inferibed to his
“ manes underthe titleof The fourth book of the Occult Philosophy,
,
“ or of Magical Ceremonies, which pretends likewife to be a Key to the
“ three former books of the Occult Philosophy, and all kinds ofMagical
“ Operations.” Thus John Wierus exprefles himfelf. There is an edition
in folio of the Occult Philofophy in 1533, without the place where it was
,
printed. The privilege of Charles V. is prefixed to it, dated from Mechlin,
We
the 1 2th of "January 1529. have already mentioned the chief works of
A
Agrippa. It will be fufficient to add, that he wrote Commentary on the Art
A
ofRaimundus Lullius, and Dijfertation on the Original of Sin, wherein he
teaches that the fall ofour firft parents proceeded from their unchafte love.
He promifed a work againft the Dominicans, which would have pleafed many
perfons both within and without the pale of the church of Rome*. He held
fome uncommon opinions, and never any Proteftant fpoke more forcibly againft
We
the impudence of the Legendaries, than he did. mull: not forget the Key
of his Occult Philofophy, which he kept only for his friends of the firft rank,
and explained it in a manner, which differs but little from the fpeculations of
our Quietifts. Now many fuppofe that the 4th book of the Occult Philofophy
is the Key which Agrippa mentions in his letters to have referved to himfelf
j
but it may be anfwered, with great Ihew of probability, that he amufed the
* “ In the treatife I am compofing ofthe vices and erroneous opinions of the Dominicans, in which
“ I fliall— expofe to the whole world their vicious practices, fuch as the facrainent often infefled with
u poifon numberlefs pretended miracles—kings and princes taken off with poifon—cities and ftates
— — —
“ betrayed the populace feduced herefies avowed and the reft ofthe deeds ofthefe heroes and their
“ enormous crimes.” See Agrippa Optra, T. ii. p, 1037,
worldHENRY CORNELIUS AGRIPPA. I79
world with this Key to caufe himfelf to be courted by the curious, fames
Gokory and Vigenere fay, that he pretended to be mafter of the Pradlice ofthe
Mirror of Pythagoras, and the fecret of extracting the fpirit of gold from its
body, in order to convert fiver and copper into fine gold. But he explains
what he means by this Key, where he fays, in the Epift. 19. lib. v. “ Phis
“ is that true and occult philofophy of the wonders of nature . The key thereof
“ is the underfanding for the higher we carry our knowledge, the more fublime
:
“ are ouraltahvnents in virtue, aridweperform thegreateft thingswith more eafe
“ and efi'eCt.” Agrippa makes mention of this Key in two letters which he
wrote to a religious who addicted himfelf to the ftudy of the Occult Sciences,
viz. Aurelius de Aquapendente Aufin, friar, where he fays, “ Whatfurprifng
“ accounts we meet with, and how great writings there aremade ofthe invincible
“ power ofthe Magic Art, oftheprodigious hnages ofAftrologers, ofthe amazing
“ tranfmutations ofAlchymifts, and ofthat blejfedfone by which, Midas -like,
“ all metals are tranfmuted into gold: all which are found to be vain fictitious,
,
“ andfalfe as often as they arepraCtifed literally.” Yet he fays, “ Such things
,
“
are delivered and writ by great and grave philofophers, whofe traditions who
“ dare fay are falfe ? Nay, it were impious to think them lies : only there is
“ anothermeaningthanwhat is writwith thebare letters. Wemud not, headds,
“ look for the principle of thefe grand operations without ourfelves: it is an
“ internal fpirit within us, which can very well perform whatfoever the
K
monftrous Mathematicians the prodigious Magicians the wonderful Al-
, ,
<f chymifis, and the bewitching Necromancers can effeCt.”
,
Nos habitat, tion tartara ; fed nec fidera coeli,
Spiritus in nobis qui viget, ilia facit.
See Agrippa Epift. Eat. Lyons,Sept. 24, 1727,
Note. Agrippa’s three books of Magic, with the fourth, were tranflated
into English, and publifhed in London in the year 1651. But they are now
become fo fcarce, as very rarely to be met with, and are fold at a very high
price by the bookfellers.
A ALBERTUS
a 2i2o BIOGRAPHIA antiqua.
ALBERTUS MAGNUS.
^^LBERTUS MAGNUS,
a Dominican, biShop ofRati/bon, and one of the
moft famous doctors of the XIII century, was born at Lawingen, on the
Danube in Siiabia, in the year 1193, or 1205. Moreri’s di&ionary gives us
,
an account of the feveral employs which were conferred upon him, and the
fuccefs of his ledtures in feveral towns. It is likewife faid, that he pradtifed
midwifery, and that he was in fearch of the Pbilofopher s Stone that he was
j
a famous Magician, and that he had formed a machine in the Shape of a man,
which ferved him for an oracle, and explained all the difficulties which he
propofed to it. I can eafily be induced to believe that, as he understood the
mathematics, &c. he made a head, which, by the help of fome Spirits, might
form certain articulate founds. Though he was well qualified to be the in-r
ventor of artillery, there is reafon to believe, that they who afcribed the inven-
tion of it to him are mistaken. It is faid that he had naturally a very dull
wit, and that he was upon the point ofleaving the cloiSter, becaufe he defpaired
of attaining what his friar’s habit required of him, but that the Holy Virgin
appeared to him, and afked him in which he would chufe to excel, in philo-
fophy or divinity that he made choice of philofophy, and that the Holy
;
Virgin told him he Should furpafs all men of his time in that Science, but that,
as a punifhment for not chufing divinity, he Should, before his death, rclapfe
into his former Stupidity. They add, that, after this apparition, he Shewed a
prodigious deal of fenfe, and fo improved in all the Sciences, that he quickly
furpaffed his preceptors but that, three years before his death, he forgot in
;
an inftant all that he knew: and that, being at a Stand in the middle ofa
ledture on divinity at Cologne and endeavouring in vain to recal his ideas, he
,
wasALBERTUS MAGNUS. IS*
was fenfible that it was the accomplifhment of the prediflion. Whence aroffe
the faying, that he was miraculoufly converted from an als into a philofopher,
and, afterwards, from a philofopher into an afs. Our Albertus was a very
little man *, and, after livingeighty-feven years, died in the year ofour redemp-
tion, 1280, at Cologne on the i^th of November; his body was laid in the
,
middle quire of the convent of the Dominicans, and his entrails were carried to
V
Ratijbon • his body was yet entire in the time of the Emperor Charles
'.
and was taken up by his command, and afterwards replaced in its firll monu-
ment. He wrote fuch a vaft number of books, that they amount to twenty-
ne volumes in folio, in the e dition of Lyons, 1651.
ROGER BACON,
commonly called
FRIAR BACON.
J^OGER BACON, an Englifhman, and a Francifcan friar, lived in the XIII
century. He was a great Ajlrologer, Chymiji Mathematician, and Magi-
,
cian. There runs a tradition in English annals, that this friar made a brazen
head, under the rifing of the planet Saturn, which fpake with a man’s voice,
“
and gave refponfes to all his queftions. Francis Ficus fays, that he read
“ in a book wrote by Bacon, that a man mightforetel things to come by means
l< ofthe mirror Almucheji, compofed according to the rules of perfpedlive pro-
;
“ vided he made ufe ofit under a good conftellation, and firft brought his body
“
into an even and temperate ftate by chymiflry.” This is agreeable to what
John Ficus has maintained, that Bacon gave himfelf only to the ftudy of Natu-
ral Magic. This friar fent feveral inftruments of his own invention to pope
Clement IV. Several ofhis books have been publilhed [but they are nowvery
* When he came before the Pope, afterHanding fotne time in his prefence, his Holinefs defired him
to rife, thinking he had been kneeling.
fcarce,), ;
82 BIO'GKAPHiA ANTIQU'A.
1
&
fcarce,) viz. SpeculaMathematka PerfpeBiva, Speculum Alcbymice De Mira-
,
& &
bill Potefate Artis Naturae ,, Epijlolcs. cum Notis , c. In all probability he
did not perform any thing by any compact with devils, but has only afcribed
to things a furprifing efficacy which they could not naturally have. He was
well verfed in judicial aftrology. His Speculum Aftrologiae was condemned
by Gerfon and Agrippa. Francis Picus and many others have condemned it
only becaufe the author maintains in it, that , withJubmijfion to betterjudgments,
books ofmagic ought to be carefully preferved, becaufe the time draws near that,
for certain caufes not there fpecifed they muft necefdrily be perufed and made
,
ufe of on fome occafons. Maude adds, “ that Bacon was fo much addidted to
judicial aftrology, that Henry de Ha fa, William ofPans, and Nicholas Orefmius,
were obliged to inveigh fharply againft his writings.’' Bacon was fellow of
Brazen-nofe college in Oxford in the year 12;6. He was beyond all compeer
the glory of the age he lived in, and may perhaps ftand in competition with
the greatefl that have appeared fince. It is wonderful, confidering the age
wherein he lived, how he came by fuch a depth ofknowledge on all fubjedts.
His treatifes are compofed with that elegancy, concifenefs, and flrength, and
abound with fuch juft and exquifite obfervations on nature, that, among the
whole line of chymifts, we do not know one that can pretend to contend with
him. The reputation of his uncommon learning ftill furvives in England.
His cell is (hewn at Oxford to this day ; and there is a tradition, that it will
fall whenever a greater man than Bacon fhall enter within it. He wrote
many treatifes amongft which, fuch as are yet extant have beauties enough
;
to make us fenfible of the great lofs of the reft. What relates to chymiftry
are two fmall pieces, wrote at Oxford which are now in print, and the manu-
fcripts to be feen in the public library at Leiden having been carried thither
among Vojfus's manufcripts from England. In thefe treatifes he clearly fhews
how imperfedt metals may be ripened into perfedt ones. He entirely adopts
Geber s notion, that mercury is the common bafts ofall metals, and fulphur the
cement and fhews that it is by a gradual depuration of the mercurial matter
;
by fublhration, and the acceffion ofa fubile fulphur byfire, thatnature makes
her gold and that, if during the procefs, any other third matter happen to
3
intervene,* ; ;
ROGER BACON 183
intervene, befides the mercury and fulphur, fome bafe metal arifes: fo that,
if we by imitating her operations ripen lead, we might eafily change it into
good gold.
Several of Bacon s operations have been compared with the experiments of
Monf eur Homberg made by that curious prince the duke of Orleans by
,
which it has been found that Bacon has defcribed fome of the very things
which Homberg publiflied as his own difcoveries. Fbr inftance, Bacon teaches
exprefsly, that ifa pure fulphur be united with mercury, it will commence gold:
on which very principle, Monfieur Homberg has made various experiments for
the production of gold, defcribed in the Memoires de l' Academ. Royale des
Sciences. His other phyfical writings fhew no lefs genius and force of mind.
In a treatife* Ofthefecret Works ofNature, he thews that a perfon who was
perfectly acquainted with the manner nature obferves in her operations,
would not only be able to rival, but to furpafs nature herfelf.
This author’s works are printedin 8vo and 12tno, under the title ofFrater
&
Rogeritcs Baco de Secretis Artis Nature c, but they are become very rare.
From a repeated perufal ofthem we may perceive that Bacon was no flranger
to many of the capital difcoveries of the prefent and pa ft ages. Gunpowder
he certainly knew thunder and lightning, he tells us, may be produced by art
;
and that fulphur, nitre, and charcoal, which when feparat'e have no fenfible
effeCt, when mingled together in a due proportion, and clofely confined, yield
A
a horrible crack. more precife defeription of gunpowder cannot be given
with words : and yet a Jefuit, Barthoi. Schwartz , fome ages afterwards, has
had the honour ofthe difeovery. He likewife mentions a fort ofinextinguilh-
able fire, prepared by art, which indicates he knew fomething of phofphorus.
And that he had a notion of the rarefaction of the air, and the ftruCture of the
A
air-pump, is paft contradiction. chariot, he obferves, might be framed on
the principles of mechanics, which, being fuftained on very large globes, fpeci-
fically lighter than common air, would carry a man aloft through the
atmofphere this proves that he likewife had a competent idea of aeroftation.
5
* De Secretis Nature Operibus.
There84 BI0GR APHIA ANTIQUA.
I
There are many curious fpeculations in this noble author, which will raife the
admiration of the reader : but none of them will affedt him with fo much
wonder, as to fee a perfon of the moft fublime merit fall a facrifice to the
wanton zeal of infatuated bigots. See Boerhaave’s Cbym. p. 18.
RAYMOND
LULLY,
A FAMOUS ALCHYMIST.
jf^AYMOND LULLY, or Raymon Lull comes the next in order. He was
,
born in the ifland of Majorca in the year 1225, ofa family of the firft
,
diftindtion, though he did not afliime his chymical character till towards the
latter part ofhis life.
Upon his applying himfelf to chymiftry, he foon began to preach another
fort ofdodtrine ; infomuch that, fpeaking of that art, he fays it is only to
be acquired by dint of experiment and pradtice, and cannot be conveyed to the
underftanding by idle words and founds. He is the firft author I can find, who
confiders alchymy exprefsly with a view to the univerfal medicine but after
:
him it became a popular purfuit, and the libraries were full of writings in
that vein.
Lully himfelf, befide what he wrote in the fcholaftic way, has a good many
,
volumes wrote after his converfion : 'tis difficult to fay how many ; for it was
a common pradtice with his difciples and followers to uffier in their perform-
“
ances under their matter's name. I have perufed (Jays BoerhaaveJ the belt
“ part of his works, and find them, beyond expedtation, excellent infomuch,
:
" that I have been almoft tempted to doubt whether they could be the work
“ of that age, fo full are they of the experiments and obfervations which
“
occur in our later writers, that either the books mufl be fuppofititious, or elfe
“
the:, :
RAYMUND LULLY.
“
the ancient chymifts mull have been acquainted with a world of things which
“ pafs for the difcoveries ofmodern pradlice. He gives very plain intimations
“ of phofphorus, which he calls the VejlalFire, the Offa Helmontii, &c. and
“ yet it is certain he wrote 200 years before either Helmont , or my Lord
“Bacon.”
He travelled into Mauritania, where he is fuppofed to have firfl met with
chymiftry, and to have imbibed the principles ofhis art from the writings of
Geber which opinion is countenanced by the conformity obfervable between
the two. The Spanijh authors afcribe the occafion ofhis journey toan amour
he had fallen in love, it feems, with a maiden ofthat country, who obftinately
refufed his addrefles. Upon enquiring into the reafon, fhe fhewed him a can-
cered breaft. Lully like a generous gallant, immediately refolved on a voyage
,
to Mauritania where Geber had lived, to feek fome relieffor his miftrefs. He
,
ended his days in Africa where, after having taken up the quality ofmillion-
j
ary, and preaching the gofpel among the infidels, he was ftoned to death*.
* The hiftory ofthis eminent adept isveryconfufed. Mutius
,
an author,isexprefs,thatthatgood man,
being wholly intent upon religion, never applied himfelf eitherto chymiftryor the philofopher’s-ftone
:
and yetwe have various accounts ofhismaking gold. Among a variety ofauthors, Gregory ofThouloufe
aflerts that “ Lully offered Edward III. king of England , a/apply offix millions to make war againjl the
Infidels Betides manufcripts, the following printed pieces bearLully's name, viz. 1he Theory of the
Pbilofopber’s Stone'. The Prafiife: The Tranfmutation of Metals: The Codicil: The Vade-Mecum : The
Book ofExperiments: The Explanationofhis Teftament; The Abridgements, or Accufations: and The Power
ofRiches
i
B GEORGE
b;
/
86 BIOGRAFHIA ANTIQVA,
1
GEORGE RIPLEY.
j^EORGE RIPLEY, an Englijhman by nation, and by profeffion a canon
or monk, of Britlingthon. His writings were all very good jn their kind,
being wrote exactly in the Ryle of Bacon only more allegorical. As he was no
,
pbyfician, he does not meddle with any thing of the preparations ofthat kind
but treats much of the cure ofmetals, which in his language is the purification
and maturation thereof. He rigoroufly purfued Geber s and Bacon's principles,
and maintained, for inftance, with new evidence, that mercury is the univerfal
matter of all metals ; that this fet over the fire, with the pureft fulphur, will
become gold, but that if either of them be fick or leprous, i. e. infedted with
any impurity, inftead of gold, fome other metal will be produced. He adds,
that as mercury and fulphur are fufficient for the making of all metals fo of
:
thefe may an univerfal medicine, or metal, be produced for curing of all the
fick which fome miftakenly underftood ofan univerfal metal, efficacious in
;
all the difeafes of the human body.
JOHN, and ISAAC HOLLANDUS.
were two brothers, both of them of great parts and ingenuity.
and wrote on the dry topics ofchymiftry. They lived in the 3th century,
1
but this is not allured. The whole art of enamelling is their invention, as
is alfo, that of colouring glafs , and precious Rones, by application of thin metal
plates.JOHN AND ISAAC HOLLANPUS. 187
plates. Their writings are in the form of proceffes, and they defcribe all
their operations to the moft minute circumftances. The treatife ofenamelling
is efteemed the greateft and moft finished part of their works : whatever
relates to the fufion, feparation, and preparation of metals, is here delivered..
They write excellently of dijlillation fermentation putrefaction, and their
, ,
effedts and feem to have underftood, at leaft, as much of thefe matters
;
as any of the moderns have done. They furnifti a great many experiments
on human blood which Van Helmont and Mr. Boyle have fince taken
;
for new difcoveries. I have a very large work in folio, under their name,
of the conftrudtion of chymical furnaces and inftruments. Their writings
are as eafily purchafed, as they are worthy of perufal, on account of
valuable fecrets in them, which may pave the way for greater difcoveries.
See Boerhaave, p. 21.
Bba PHILIPPUS;
88 BIOGRAPHIA ANT QUA*
1 I
PHILIPPUS AUREOLUS THEOPHRASTUS PARACELSUS
BOMBAST DE HOENHEYM,
THE PRINCE OF PHYSICIANS AND PHILOSOPHERS BY FIRE
GRAND PARADOXICAL PHYSICIAN;
THE TRISMEGISTUS OF SWITZERLAND;
FIRST REFORMER OF CHYMICAL PHILOSOPHY;
ADEPT IN ALCHYMY, CABALA, AND MAGIC
NATURE’S FAITHFUL SECRETARY;
MASTER OF THE ELIXIR OF LIFE AND THE PHILOSOPHER’S STONE
;
ANET THE
GREAT MONARCH OF CHYMICAL SECRETS;
Njw living in hisTomb, whither he retired difgufted with theVices and Follies ofMankind, fupporting
himfelfwith his own
OUINTESSENTIA VIT.E.
pARACELSUS
was born, as he himfelf writes, in the year 1494, in a vil-
lage in Switzerland called Hoenheym (q. d. ab alto nidoj two miles diilant
from Zurich. His father was a natural fon of a great mailer of the Teutonic
order, and had been brought up to medicine, which he pradlifed accordingly in
that obfcure corner. He was mailer of an excellent and copious library, and
is faid to have become eminent in his art j fo that Paracelfus always fpeaks of
him with the higheil deference, and calls him laudatijjimus medicus in eo vico
Of fuch a father did Paracelfus receive his firil difcipline. After a little
courfe of iludy at home he was committed to the care of Trithemius the ce-
,
lebrated abbot of Spanheim, who had the character of an adept himfelf, and
wrote of the Cabala being at that time a reputed magician. Here he chiefly
,
learnt languages and letters after which he was removed to Sigifmund
;
Fugger to learn medicine, furgery, and chymiilry ; all thefe mailers, efpecially
the%
,
PHILTPPUS AUREOEUS THEOPHRASTUS PARA^ELSUS.
I
the laft, Paracelfus ever fpeaks of with great veneration
;
fo that he was not
altogether fo rude and unpoliihed as is generally imagined. Thus much we
learn from his own writings, and efpecially the preface to his Leflfer Surgery,.,
where he defends himfelf againft his accufers. At twenty years of age he
undertook a journey through Germany and Hungary vifiting all the mines of
,
principal note, arid contracting an acquaintance with the miners and work-
men, by which means he learnt every thing relative to metals, and the art
thereof in this enquiry he {hewed an uncommon affiduity and refolution. He
:
gives us an account of the many dangers he had run from earthquakes, falls
of {tones, floods of water, cataracts, exhalations, damps, heat,, hunger, and
third; and every where takes occafion to inlift on the value of an art acquired
j
on fueh hard terms. The fame inclination carried him as far as Mufcovy
,
where as he was in quelt of mines near the frontiers of Tartary he was taken
priloner by that people, and carried before the great Cham during his cap-
;
tivity there he learnt various fecrets, till, upon the Cham’s fending an em-
bafly to the Grand Signior, with his own fon at the head of it, Paracelfus
was font along with him in quality of companion. On this occafion he came
to CanJlantiijople in the twenty-eighth year of his age, and was there taught
the fecret of thephilofophePs Jlone by a generous Arabian who made him
,
this noble prefent, as he palls it, Azoth . This incident we have from Helmont
only; for Paracelfus himfelf, who is ample enough on his other travels, fays
nothing of his captivity. At his return from Turkey he pradlifed as a furgeon
in- the Imperial army, and performed many excellent cures therein ; indeed, it
cannot be denied but that he was excellent in that art, of which his greatfur-
gery printed in folio, will ever be a {landing monument. At his return to
,
his native country he aflumed the title of utriufque medicines doBor, or dodtor
both ofexternal and internal medicine or furgery ; and grew famous in both,
performing fir beyond what the practice of that time could pretend to and
no wonder, for medicine was then in a poor condition the practice and
the very language was all Galenical and Arabic ; nothing was -inculcated but
Arifotle , Galen , andthe^r^r; Hippocrates was not read ; nay, there was
no edition of his writings, and fcar.ce was he ever mentioned. Their theory
confided— —
;
1
90 I BIOGRAPHIA ANTIQUA.
1
confiftcd in the knowledge of the four degrees, the temperaments, &c. and
their whole practice was confined to venefedlion, purgation, vomiting, clyf-
mata, &c. Now, in this age a new difeafe had broke out, and fpread itfelf
over Europe viz. the venereal diforder the common Galenic medicines had
,
here proved altogether ineffectual bleeding, purging, and cleanfing medicines
;
were vain and the phyficians were at their wit’s end. Jac Carpus a cele-
; ,
brated anatomift and furgeon at Bologne had alone been mafter of the cure,
,
which was by mercury adminiftered to raife a falivation he had attained this
;
fecret in his travels through Spain and Italy, and pradtifed it for fome years,
and with fuch fuccefs and applaufe, that it is incredible what immenfe riches
this one nojlrum brought him (it is faid upon good authority, that in one
year he cleared fix thoufand piftoles) he acknowledged himfelf, that he did
not know the end ofhis own wealth for the captains, merchants, governors,
;
commanders, &c. who had brought that filthy difeafe from America, were
very well content to give him what fums he pleafed to alk to free them
from it. Paracelfus about this time having likewife learnt the properties of
mercury, and moft likely from Carpus, who undertook the fame cure but in a
very different manner for whereas Carpus did all by falivation Paracelfus
;
making up his preparation in pills attained his ends in a gentler manner. By
this he informs us he cured the itch, leprofy, ulcers, Naples difeafe, and
even gout, all which diforders were incurable on the foot of popular practice,
and thus was the great bafis laid for all his future fame and fortune.
Paracelfus thus furnilhed with arts, and arrived at a degree of eminence
,
beyond any of his brothers in the profelfion, was invited by the curators of
the univerfity of Bazil to the chair of profeffor ofmedicine and philofophy in
that univerfity. The art of printing was now a new thing, the tafte for
learning and arts was warm *, and the magiftracy of Bazil were very induf-
* We feel oorfelves happy in being able to fay, that the taftc for learning and arts (notwithftanding
the folliesof the age) was never more prevalent than in the prefent time
;
the yea
—
r 1801 commences
an age of flourifliing fcience, in which even our females feemto wifh to bear a part inftance,a lady of
quality, who went in her carriage the other day to Fofter-lanc, Cheapfide, and bought a portable
blackfmith’s forge for her private amufement ; her perfon was ftrong and athletic, and very fit for the
manual praftice of handling iron, and working other metallic experiments.
trious1
PHILIPPUS AUREOLUS THEOPHRASTUS PARACELSUS.
I9
trious in procuring profeftors of reputation from all parts of the world. They
had already got Dejid . Erafmus, profeflorof theology, and J. Oporinus profeflor
of the Greek tongue and now in 1527 Puracelfus was aflbciated in the 33d
;
year of his age. Upon his firft entrance into that province, having to make a
public fpeech before the univerfity, he ported up a very elegant advertife-
xnent over the doors inviting every body to his dodtrine. At his firft ledlure he
ordered a brafs veflei to be brought into the middle of the fchool, where
after he had cart in fulphur and nitre, in a very folemn manner he burnt the
books of Galen and Avicenna alledging that he had held a difpute with them
y
in the gates of hell, and had fairly routed and overcome them. And hence
he proclaimed, that the phyficians Ih—ould all follow him ; and no longer ftyle
themfelves Galenijls, but Paraceljijls. <( Know,” fays he, " phyficians, my
cap has more learning in it than ail your heads, my beard has more experience
than your whole academies : Greeks,. Latins, French, Germans, Italians, I
will be your king.”
Whilehe was here profeftor he read his book De Tartaro, de Gradibus, and
De Compojitiombus in public ledtures, to which he added a commentary on
,
the book De Gradibus all thefe he afterwards printed at Bazil for the ufe
;
ofhis difciples lo that thefe muft be allowed for genuine writings; about the
;
fame time he wrote De Calculo, which performance Helmont fpeaks of
with high approbation.
Notwithstanding his being profefior in fo learned an univerfity, he un-
derftood but a very little Latin y his long travels, and application to
bufinefs, and difufe of the language, had very much difcjualified him for
writing or fpeaking therein and his natural warmth rendered, him very un-
;
fit for teaching atall. Hence, though his auditors and difciples were at firft
very numerous,yet they very much fell off, and left him preaching to the walls..
—
- In the mean time he abandoned himfelf to drinking at certain feafons y
Oporinusy who, was always near him, has, the good nature to fay, he was never
fober but that he tippled on from morning to night,and from night to morn-
;
ing, in a continual round. At length he foon. became weary of his profeftor-
fhip, and after three years continuance therein relinquifhed it, faying, that
no;
92 BIOGRAPHIA ANTIQUA.
1
no language befides the German was proper to reveal the fecrets of chymiftry
in.
After this he again betook himfelf to an itinerant life, travelling and drink-
ing, and living altogether at inns and taverns, continually flufhed with liquor,
and yet working many admirable cures in his way. In this manner he paffed
four years from the 43d to the 47th year of his life, when he died at an inn
at Saltzburg, at the fign of the White Horfe, on a bench in the chimney-
corner. Oporinus relates, that after he had put on any new thing, it never
came offhis back till he had worn it into rags j he adds, that notw — ithftanding
his excefs in point of drinking, he was never addidted to venery. But there
is this reafon for it : when he was a child, being negledted by his nurfe, a
hag gelded him in a place where three ways met, and fo made a eunuch of
him accordingly in his writings he omits no opportunity of railing againft
; —
women. Such is the life of Paracelfus ; fuch is the immortal man, who
fick oflife retired into a corner of the world, and there fupports himfelf with
his own Quintefence ofLife.
In his life time he only publifhed three or four books, but after his death
he grew prodigioufly voluminous, fcarce a year paffing but one book or other
was publifhed under his name, faid to be found in fome old wall, ceiling, or
the like. All the works publifhed under his name were printed together at
Scrajburg in the year 1603, in three volumesfoIio t and again in 1616. J. Opo-
rinusy that excellent profeffor and printer, before named, who conftantly at-
tended Paracelfus for three years as his menial fervant, in hopes of learning
fome of his fecrets, who publifhed the works of Vefalius and is fuppofed to
,
have put them in that elegant language wherein they now appear this Opo-
:
rinus in an epiflle to Monavius concerning the life of Paracelfus profefies
,
himfelf furprized to find fo many works of his matter for, that in all the
,
time he was with him he never wrote a word himfelf, nor ever took pen in
j
hand, but forced Oporinus to write what he dictated and Oporinus wondered
;
much, how fuch coherent words and difcourfe which might even become the
wifeft perfons, fhould come from the mouth of a drunken man. His work
called\
FHILIPPUS AUItEOLUS THEOPHRASTUS PARACELSUS.
193
called Archidoxa Medicines., as containing, the principles and maxims of the
art, nine books of which were published at firft ; and the author in the pro-
legomena to them, fpeaks thus I intended, to have publifhed my ten books of
st Archidoxa but finding mankind unworthy of.finch a treafiure as the tenth
,
“ I keep it clofie in my occiput, andhavefirmly refiolved never to bring it thence
“ tillyou have all abjuredAristotle, Avicen, and Galen, and havefiworn
“
allegiance to.
Paracelsus.
alone.”
However, the book did at length get abroad, though by what means is not
known it is undoubtedly an excellent7piece, and may be ranked among the
principal productions in the way of chymiftry, that have ever appeared whe-
;
ther or no it be Paracelfus's we cannot affirm, but there is one thing fpeaks
in its behalf, viz. it contains a great many things which have fince been
trumped up for great nofirums", and Pan Helmont's Lithonthriptic and Alcaheft
are apparently taken from hence among the genuine writings of Paracelfius
; •
are likewife reckoned, that De Ortu Rerum Naturalium, De Transformations
Rerum Naturalium, and De Pita Rerum Naturalium . The reft are fpurious
or very doubtful, particularly his theological works.
The great fame and fuccefs of this man, which many attribute to hia
pofieffing an univerfial medicine may be accounted,for from other principles. It
is certain he waswell acquainted with the ufe and virtue of opium which the
,
Galenifis of thofe times all rejected as cold in the fourth degree., Oporinus
relates, that he made up certain little pills of the colour, figure, and fize of
moufe-turds, which were nothing but opium. Thefe he called by a barbarous
fort of name, his laudanum q.d. laudable medicine he always carried them
;
with him, and prefcribed them in dyffenteries, and all cafes attended with
intenfe pains, anxieties, deliriums, and obftinate wakings but to be alone
;
pofiefied ofthe ufe of fo extraordinary and noble a medicament as opium was
,
fufficient to make him famous.
Another grand remedy with Paracelfus was turbith mineral', this is firft
mentioned in his Clein Spital Boeck or Cbirurgia Minor where he gives the
— , ,
preparation. In refpedt of the philofopher’s ftone Oporinus fays, he often
wondered to fee him one day without a farthing in his pocket, and the next194 BIOGRAPHIA ANTIQUA.
day, full of money ; that he took nothing with him when he went abroad.
He
adds, that he would often borrow money of his companions, the carmen
and porters, and pay it again in twenty-four hours with extravagant intereft,
and yet from what fund nobody but himfelf knew. In the Theatrum Alchemic?
he mentions a treafure, hid under a certain tree; and from fuch like grounds
they fuppofed him to poifefs the art of making gold ; but it was hard if
fuch noble noftrums as he polfeffed would not fubfift him without the
lapis phdofophorum
.
JOHN RUDOLPH GLAUBER.
GLAUBER,
J R. a celebrated chymift of Amjlerdam , accounted the Para ->
celfus of his time : he had travelled much and by that means attained to
a great many fecrets. He wrote above thirty tradts, in fome of which he
adted the phyfician in others, the adept and in others, the metal-lift. He
; ;
principally excelled in the laft capacity, and alchymy.
He was a perfon of eafy and genteel addrefs, and, beyond difpute, well
verfed in chymiftry : being author of the fait, ftill ufed in the (hops, called
Sal Glauberi as alfo ofall the falts, by oil of vitriol, &c. He is noted for
;
extolling his arcanae and preparations, and is reported to have traded unfairly
with his fecrets : the belt of them he would fell, at exceffive rates, to chymifts
and others, and would afterwards re-fell them, or make them public, to
increafe his fame whence he was continually at variance with them.
;
The principal of his writings are De Furnis and De Metallis which,
t ,
though wrote in Dutch have been tranflated into Latin and Englijh. It was
,
Glauber who fhewed, before the States ofHolland that there is gold contained
,
in fand ; and made an experiment thereof to their entire fatisfadtion : but fo
muchDOCTOR DEE, AND SIR EDWARD KELLY. 195
much lead, fire, and labour, being employed in procuring it, that the art
would not pay charges However he plainly demonflrated, that there is no
earth, fand* fulphur, or fait, or other matter, but what contains gold in a
greater or lefs quantity. In fhort, he pofTefled a great many fecrets, which are -
at this timein the hands offome ofour modern chymifls.
DOCTOR.DEE, and SIR EDWARD KELLY,
jpOCTOR JOHN DEE, and SIR EDWARD KELLY, knight, being
profeffed affociates, their ftory is belt delivered together. They have
fome title to the philofopher’s flone in common fame Dee, befides his being
deep in chymiftry, was very well verfed in mathematics, particularly geometry
and aftrology but Sir Edward Kelly appears to have been the leading man in
:
alchymy. In fome ofDee’s books are found fhort memoirs ofthe events ofhis
operations as Donum Dei, five ounces. And in another place, " This day
: ,
Edward Kelly difcovered the grandfecret to me.Jit nomen DominihenediSlum
AJhmole fays, abfolutely, they were mafters of the powder of projection, and,
with a piece not bigger than the fmallefl grain ofland, turned an ounce and a
quarter of mercury into pure gold : - but here is an equivoque ; for granting
them pofleffed ofthe powder of projection, it does not appear they had the
fecret of making it. The ftoryis, that they found a confiderable quantityof it
in the ruins of Glajlonbury Abbey, with which they performed many notable
tranfmutations-for the fatisfaCtion of feveral perfons. Kelly, in particular, is
faid to have given away rings of gold wire to the tune of 4000I. at the
* It has been afferted by feveral eminent chymifts, that it might be performed to advantage, as the
procefsi s very limple, and takes up but little time : all that is reqttilite is lilver, fand, and litharge.
G
c 2 marriage
>196 BIOGRAPHIA ANTIQUA*
marriage of his fervant maid. And a piece of a brafs warming-pan being cut
out by order of queen Elizabeth and fent to them when abroad, was returned
,
pure gold. Likewife Dee made a prefent to the landgrave of Heffe of twelve
Hungarian horfes, which could never be expedited from a man of his circum-
ftances without fome extraordinary means.
In the year 1591 they went into Germany and fettled fome time at Drebona,
,
in Bohemia ; the defign of which journey is ve.ry myfterious. Some fay their
defign was to vifit the alchymifts of thefe countries, in order to get fome light
into the art of making the powder. Accordingly they travelled through
Poland , &c. in quell: thereof, and, fome fay, attained it; others fay, not.
Others, again, will make them fent by the queen as fpies, and that alchymy
was only a pretence, or means, to bring them into confidence with the people.
But what will give moll light upon this fubjedt, is a book, now extant, wrote
by Dee, entitled Dee's Conferences with Spirits, but fome conjedlure it to be
with Trithemius's mere Cryptography which light Dodtor Hook takes it in.
;
However, this book is truly curious in refpedl of the many magical operations
there difplayed, it being wrote journal-falbion by the Doctor’s own hand, and
relates circumflantially the conferences he held with fome fpirits (either good
or bad) in company with Sir EdwardKelly.
They were no foonergone out ofEngland, than Dee's library was opened by
the queen’s order, and 4000 books, and 700 choice manufcripts, were taken
away on pretence ofhis being a conjuror. That princefs loon after ufed means
to bring him back again, which a quarrel with Kelly happening to promote, he
returned in 1596, and in 1598 was made warden ofManchefer college, where
he died*.
Some very curious manufcripts, with the chryfial he ufed to invoke the
fpirits into, are at this time carefully laid up in the Britijh Mufeum\.
* Authors differ very much in refpecf of the place where Do&or Dee refigned his life : it appears
from the molt eminent hiftorians that he died at his hottfe at Mortlake.
f Although Dee's manufciipts, and his Magic Chryfial, are to be feen at the Mufeum, therearcfixor
fcven individuals in London whoaflcrt they have the fione in their pofleffion therebywifhing to deceive
;
the credulous, and to tempt them to a purehafe at an enormous price.
AsTHE CONCLUSION. 197
As for Sir Edward Kelly the Emperor, fufpeCting he had the fecret of the
,
philofophers in his poffeflion, clapped him up in prifon, in hopes to become
a fharer in the profits of tranfmutation : however, Kelly defeated his intentions.
After having been twice imprifoned, the laft time he was fhut up endeavouring
to make his efcape by means of the fheets of his bed tied together, they
happened to flip the knots, and fo let him fall, by which he broke his
leg, and foon after loft his life.
THE CONCLUSION.
Having collected the molt interefting and curious accounts of the lives of
thofe great men, fo famous for their fpeculations in philofophic learning,
we draw to a conclufion having only to add, that we have fufficiently
;
difcovered in this biographical fketch whatfoever was neceflary to prove the
authenticity of Our Art which we have delivered faithfully and impartially,
,
noting, at the fame time, the various opinions ofdifferent men at different ages*
likewife, we have taken fufficient trouble to explain what is meant by the word
Magic and to clear up the term from the imputation ofany diabolicalaffociation
,
with evil fpirits, &c. Alfo, how nearly it is allied to our religious duties, we
refer the reader to the annotations under the article Zoroajler where we
,
have fpoke of the Magi, or wife men, proving the firft who adored Chrift were
actually magicians. It is enough that we have fpoke ofthe principal characters
renowned in pad ages for their laborious inquifition into the labyrinth of
occult and natural philofophy ; there are many other philofophers {landing
upon ancient and modem record. A copious and general biography falls not
We
within the limits ofour work. have introduced fome characters (applica-
ble to the fubjeCt before us) mofl diftinguifhed for occult learning; of which
kind of fcience, whether by a particular influence of planetary configuration,
which may have directed and impelled my mind and intellects to the obferva-
tionand fludyofnature, and her Ampleoperations, as well as to the more occult,
I leave to the judgment of the aftrologers, to whofe infpeCtion I fubmit a figure *
of:
iq8 THE CONCLUSION.
of my nativity, which I {hall annex to a fketch of my own hiftory, which I'
mean to make the fubjed of a future publication, including a vaft number of
curious experiments in occult and chymical operations, which have fell either,
under my own obfervation, or have been tranfmitted to me from others. In?
refped of the aftrologic art, (as we have already obferved) it has fuch an
affinity with talifmanic experiments, &c. that no one can bring any work to a
complete effed without a due knowledge and obfervation of the qualities and
effeds ofthe conftellations (which occafioned us to give it the title of the Con-
ftellatory Art likewife, a man muft be well acquainted with the nature,
;)
qualities, and effeds, of the four elements, and of the animal, vegetable,
and mineral kingdoms; which knowledge cannot better be obtained than by
chymical experience, for it does, as I may fay, unlock the fecret chambers of
nature, and introduces the ftudent into a world of knowledge, which could not
be attained but by chymical analyzation, whereby we decompound mixt
bodies, and reduce them to their fimple natures, and comd to a thorough'
acquaintance with thofe powerful and adive principles, caufing the wonderful
tranfmutations of one compound body into another of a different fpecies, as is
to be feen in the courfe of our operations upon falts and metals, giving us clear,
and comprehenfive ideas ofthe principles oflife or generation, and putrefadion
or death.
Finally, to conclude, we are chiefly to confider one thing to be attained as
the ground of perfedion in the reft : /. e. The great Firft Caufe , the Eternal
JViJdom to know the Creator by the contemplation of the creature. This is
,
the grand fecret of the philofophers, and the mafter-key to all fciences both
human and divine, for without this we are ftill wandering in a labyrinth of per-
plexity and errors, ofdarknefs and obfcurity : for this is the fum and perfedion
ofall learning, to live in the fear ofGod, and in love and charitywith all men.
FINIS-
W
’Bhckader, Printer,
10 Tooke’sCourt, Chancery Lane-
,, 1
£L aa&aut- XiXuxi' -faxi.tZ&X- yy /XXXc ^//ey&f, / 71-7, 977 TtS
,
/W 'l^wcrrurfif tn*-'<71 jfftO-~Zye*7- ^rpt^'y ToXyc^ 77 >
^?susrr%47l /6n Ca?*7W^di^-&f+st^, ^/e^rryti-^fenst^H
! }
-o/7/^-tC^J^C ^£srr?-47&Jrr>i-7-f
J
Xe 'ntyr^oTTl^ OTn^^e^riT- 7170710^0—
>
Trr777nr)-i-es77C- <710X1eX^TCejfarzj
J
^J^7^i, -«*W /
,
</y^AX^f afa-£x^ snaXcc^ Utto-Ctm,
, >
^
#4 neajz- aa cam TtxXX ^cyy sX+a-iX,
^*0 j^ad- erthcSl/a^/rrja ^n^caaT^xz-
. t
^m^Xy?ax2
^}7 rmcrtf&'dt &^ArXjfX, $&t &c/>ecZn7*
- 7/a
^ s 6 > xx r < o ~ x • z ' g ^ — ^ j > ^ m -t X t v a •>> 7 yzy -/ ze/ « a i -' o t -c t ^ -T 1 y ' y M» y 'a y «-- /*-.x • r y- ? ^ r t x y^n ' ^j y r ^ 1*- Ty yy a / / f w aXzf • XdAyCT y i y e?^
afc. /rrdX y^TM-cmfe? afc=>^_
^e-V !
\A
/r
<
'tr
• *
:
*
\we.-"*- 1